-----
FRIDAYS OF LENT

LAUDS
INVITATORY
Turn back to the Lord your God.
- He is kind and merciful.

READING
Friday after Ash Wednesday & Weeks 1-4:    Is 53:11b-12     

Week 5:    Is 52:13-14    

BENEDICTUS
Friday after Ash Wednesday:	When you meet those who are in need of clothing, do not turn away from them, for they are your brothers. Then your light shall break forth like the dawn, and your good deeds shall go before you.
Week 1:	If your virtue does not surpass that of the scribes and Pharisees, you will never enter the kingdom of heaven.
Week 2:	He will bring those evil men to an evil end and entrust his vineyard to other tenants who will give him the harvest at the proper season.
Week 3:	Teacher, what is the greatest commandment in the law? Jesus said to him: You shall love the Lord your God with your whole heart.
Week 4:	Indeed you know me, says the Lord, and you know where I come from. Yet I have not come of my own accord; it was my Father who sent me.
Week 5:	The Lord said: I have done you many acts of kindness; for which of them do you want to kill me?

PRAYERS
Friday after Ash Wednesday:	Show gracious favor, O Lord, we pray, to the works of penance we have begun, that we may have strength to accomplish with sincerity the bodily observances we undertake. Through our Lord Jesus Christ, your Son, who lives and reigns with you in the unity of the Holy Spirit, one God, for ever and ever.
Week 1:	Grant that your faithful, O Lord, we pray, may be so conformed to the paschal observances, that the bodily discipline now solemnly begun may bear fruit in the souls of all. Through our Lord Jesus Christ, your Son, who lives and reigns with you in the unity of the Holy Spirit, one God, for ever and ever.
Week 2:	Grant, we pray, almighty God, that, purifying us by the sacred practice of penance, you may lead us in sincerity of heart to attain the holy things to come. Through our Lord Jesus Christ, your Son, who lives and reigns with you in the unity of the Holy Spirit, one God, for ever and ever.
Week 3:	Pour your grace into our hearts, we pray, O Lord, that we may be constantly drawn away from unruly desires and obey by your own gift the heavenly teaching you give us. Through our Lord Jesus Christ, your Son, who lives and reigns with you in the unity of the Holy Spirit, one God, for ever and ever.
Week 4:	O God, who have prepared fitting helps for us in our weakness, grant, we pray, that we may receive their healing effects with joy and reflect them in a holy way of life. Through our Lord Jesus Christ, your Son, who lives and reigns with you in the unity of the Holy Spirit, one God, for ever and ever.
Week 5:	Pardon the offenses of your peoples, we pray, O Lord, and in your goodness set us free from the bonds of the sins we have committed in our weakness. Through our Lord Jesus Christ, your Son, who lives and reigns with you in the unity of the Holy Spirit, one God, for ever and ever.

SEXT
READING
Friday after Ash Wednesday & Weeks 1-4:    Jer 3:12b, 14a    

Week 5:    Is 53:4-5    

Response same as Sunday

VESPERS
HYMN p. ?
READING
Friday after Ash Wednesday & Weeks 1-4:    Jas 5:16, 19-20    

Week 5:    1 Pet 2:21-24    

MAGNIFICAT
Friday after Ash Wednesday:	When the bridegroom is taken away from them, then will be the time for the wedding guests to fast.
Week 1:	If you are bringing your gift to the altar, and there you remember that your brother has something against you, leave your gift in front of the altar; go at once and make peace with your brother, and then come back and offer your gift.
Week 2:	They would have arrested Jesus but they feared the people who regarded him as a prophet.
Week 3:	It is far more important to love your neighbor as yourself than to offer sacrifice.
Week 4:	No one could lay a hand on Jesus, because his time had not yet come.
Week 5:	Even if you have no faith in my words, you should at least believe the evidence of the works I do in God's name.
