MONDAYS OF LENT

LAUDS
INVITATORY
Turn away from sin and be faithful to the Gospel.
-The kingdom of God is at hand.

READING
Week 1-4:  Ex 19:4-6a  You have seen how I treated the Egyptians and how I bore you up on eagles’ wings and brought you to myself. Now, if you obey me completely and keep my covenant, you will be my treasured possession among all peoples, though all the earth is mine. You will be to me a kingdom of priests, a holy nation.

Week 5:  Jer 11:19-20  Yet I was like a trusting lamb led to slaughter, not knowing that they were hatching plots against me: “Let us destroy the tree in its vigor; let us cut him off from the land of the living, so that his name will no longer be remembered." But, you, LORD of hosts, just Judge, searcher of mind and heart, let me witness the vengeance you take on them, for to you I have entrusted my cause!

BENEDICTUS
Week 1:	You have been blessed by my Father; come and receive the kingdom prepared for you form the foundation of the world.
Week 2:	Be compassionate and forgiving as your Father is, says the Lord.
Week 3:	I tell you assuredly, no prophet is accepted in his own country.
Week 4:	A royal official, hearing that Jesus had come to Galilee, begged him to heal his son who lay ill in Capernaum.
Week 5:	Whoever follows me does not walk in the dark; he will have the light of life.

PRAYERS
Week 1:	Convert us, O God our Savior, and instruct our minds by heavenly teaching, that we may benefit from the works of Lent. Through our Lord Jesus Christ, your Son, who lives and reigns with you in the unity of the Holy Spirit, one God, for ever and ever.
Week 2:	O God, who have taught us to chasten our bodies for the healing of our souls, enable us, we pray, to abstain from all sins, and strengthen our hearts to carry out your loving commands. Through our Lord Jesus Christ, your Son, who lives and reigns with you in the unity of the Holy Spirit, one God, for ever and ever.
Week 3:	May your unfailing compassion, O Lord, cleanse and protect your Church, and, since without you she cannot stand secure, may she be always governed by your grace. Through our Lord Jesus Christ, your Son, who lives and reigns with you in the unity of the Holy Spirit, one God, for ever and ever.
Week 4:	O God, who renew the world through mysteries beyond all telling, grant, we pray, that your Church may be guided by your eternal design and not be deprived of your help in this present age. Through our Lord Jesus Christ, your Son, who lives and reigns in the unity of the Holy Spirit, one God, for ever and ever.
Week 5:	O God, by whose wondrous grace we are enriched with every blessing, grant us so to pass from former ways to newness of life, that we may be made ready for the glory of the heavenly Kingdom. Through our Lord Jesus Christ, your Son, who lives and reigns with you in the unity of the Holy Spirit, one God, for ever and ever.

SEXT
READING
Weeks 1-4:    Ezek 18:23    Do I find pleasure in the death of the wicked—oracle of the Lord GOD? Do I not rejoice when they turn from their evil way and live? 

Week 5:    Jer 18:20b    Remember that I stood before you to speak on their behalf, to turn your wrath away from them.

Response same as Sunday

VESPERS
HYMN p. ?
READING
Weeks 1-4:     Rom 12:1-2     I urge you therefore, brothers, by the mercies of God, to offer your bodies as a living sacrifice, holy and pleasing to God, your spiritual worship. Do not conform yourselves to this age but be transformed by the renewal of your mind, that you may discern what is the will of God, what is good and pleasing and perfect.

Week 5:     Rom 5:8-9     But God proves his love for us in that while we were still sinners Christ died for us. How much more then, since we are now justified by his blood, will we be saved through him from the wrath.

MAGNIFICAT
Week 1:	Whatever you do for the least of my brother, you do for me.
Week 2:	Do not judge others, and you will not be judged, for as you have judged them, so God will judge you.
Week 3:	Jesus walked through the crowd and went away.
Week 4:	The father realized that it was at that very hour when Jesus had told him: Your son will live; and he and all his household became believers.
Week 5:	I am my own testimony, says the Lord, and my Father who sent me also testifies on my behalf.
