HOLY WEEK
PASSION SUNDAY
(PALM SUNDAY)

PSALMODY WEEK II

INVITATORY
Come, let us worship Christ the Lord, who for our sake endured temptation and suffering.

Hymn I
Vexilla regis prodeunt,
fulget crucis mysterium,
quo carne carnis conditor
suspensus est patibulo;

Quo, vulneratus insuper 
mucrone diro lanceae,
ut nos lavaret crimine,
manavit unda et sanguine.

Arbor decora et sanguine
ornata regis purpura,
electa digno stipite
tam sancta membra tangere!

Beata, cuius bracchiis
saecli pependit pretium;
statera facta est corporis
praedam tulitque tartari.

Salve, ara, salve, victima,
de passionis gloria,
qua vita mortem pertulit
et morte vitam reddidit!

O crux, ave, spes unica!
hoc passionis tempore
piis adauge gratiam
reisque dele crimina.

Te, fons salutis, Trinitas,
collaudet omnis spiritus;
quos per crucis mysterium
salvas, fove per saecula. Amen.

Hymn II
The banner of the King advances,
behold the mystery of the Cross.
On it, Life suffered death,
and through death, has given us life.

The sharp iron head of the lance
wounds the heart of the Crucified One;
the water and the blood shed
purify us from all sin.

And thus, the oracle of David is accomplished
in his inspired poetry,
he who prophesied to the nations:
God will reign by the wood.

You are lovely, dazzling with glory,
tree dressed in the purple of the King
tree chosen from a blessed root.
Worthy to touch the sacred Body.

Hail, O Cross, our only hope,
grant in these days of the Passion,
that grace and pardon bear fruit
in the hearts of the faithful.

O Trinity, source of salvation,
be lauded by all the earth,
you who let us triumph through the Cross
grant us the fullness of joy. Amen.

- Saint Venance Fortunat (Bishop of Poitiers), 7th century

FIRST VESPERS

HYMN p. ?

READING:    1 Pet 1:18-21    

MAGNIFICAT:	Praise to our King, the Son of David, the Redeemer of the world; praise to the Savior whose coming had been foretold by the prophets.

PRAYER:	Almighty ever-living God, who as an example of humility for the human race to follow caused our Savior to take flesh and submit to the Cross, graciously grant that we may heed his lesson of patient sufferin and so merit a share in his Resurrection. Who lives and reigns with you in the unity of the Holy Spirit, one God, for ever and ever.

VIGILS

PSALMODY: of Sunday Week II

LAUDS

INVITATORY
When I am lifted up from the earth.
- I will draw all people to myself.

PSALMODY: OT 28


READING:    Zech 9:9    

BENEDICTUS:	With palms let us welcome the Lord as he comes, with songs and hymns let us run to meet him, as we offer him our joyful worship and sing: Blessed be the Lord!

PRAYER as of FIRST VESPERS

SEXT

READING:    1 Pet 4:13-14    

RESP
Ours were the sufferings he bore.
- Ours the weight of guilt he endured.

SECOND VESPERS

HYMN p. ?

READING:    Acts 13:26-30    

MAGNIFICAT:	It is written: I will strike the shepherd and his flock shall be scattered. But when I have risen, I will go before you into Galilee. There you shall see me, says the Lord.
