THURSDAYS OF LENT

LAUDS

INVITATORY
Whoever meditates on the law of the Lord.
- Will bring forth much fruit at the harvest time.

READING
Thursday after Ash Wednesday & Weeks 1-4:    1 Kings 8:51-53a    
Week 5:    Heb 2:9-10    

BENEDICTUS
Thursday after Ash Wednesday:	If anyone wishes to be my disciple, he must deny himself, take up his cross, and follow me, says the Lord.
Week 1:	If you, evil as you are, know how to give your children what is good, how much more will your Father in heaven pour out his gifts on all who pray to him.
Week 2:	Son, remember th good things you received in your lifetime and the bad things Lazarus received in his.
Week 3:	If it is by the power of God that I cast out devils, says the Lord, then the kingdom of God has come to you already. 
Week 4:	John bore testimony to the truth, and although I have no need of human testimony, says the Lord, I remind you of this for your own salvation.
Week 5:	Jesus said to the chief priests and the crowds of the Jews: Whoever comes from God hears the word of God. You will not listen because you do not come from God.

PRAYERS
Thursday after Ash Wednesday:	Prompt our actions with your inspiration, we pray, O Lord, and further them with your constant help, that all we do may always begin from you and by you be brought to completion. Through our Lord Jesus Christ, your Son, who lives and reigns with you in the unity of the Holy Spirit, one God, for ever and ever.
Week 1:	Bestow on us, we pray, O Lord, a spirit of always pondering on what is right and of hastening to carry it out, and, since without you we cannot exist, may we be enabled to live according to your will. Through our Lord Jesus Christ, your Son, who lives and reigns with you in the unity of the Holy Spirit, one God, for ever and ever.
Week 2:	O God, who delight in innocence and restore it, direct the hearts of your servants to yourself, that, caught up in the fire of your Spirit, we may be found steadfast in faith and effective in works. Through our Lord Jesus Christ, your Son, who lives and reigns with you in the unity of the Holy Spirit, one God, for ever and ever.
Week 3:	We implore your majesty most humbly, O Lord, that, as the feast of our salvation draws ever closer, so we may press forward all the more eagerly towards the worthy celebration of the Paschal Mystery. Through our Lord Jesus Christ, your Son, who lives and reigns with you in the unity of the Holy Spirit, one God, for ever and ever.
Week 4:	We invoke your mercy in humble prayer, O Lord, that you may cause us, your servanct, corrected by penance and schooled by good works, to persevere sincerely in your commands and come safely to the paschal festivities. Through our Lord Jesus Christ, your Son, who lives and reigns with you in the unity of the Holy Spirit, one God, for ever and ever.
Week 5:	Be near, O Lord, to those who plead before you, and look kindly on those who place their hope in your mercy, that, cleansed from the stain of their sins, they may persevere in holy living and be made full heirs of your promise. Through our Lord Jesus Christ, your Son, who lives and reigns with you in the unity of the Holy Spirit, one God, for ever and ever.

SEXT

READING
Thursday after Ash Wednesday & Weeks 1-4:    Deut 30:2-3a    
Week 5:    Heb 7:26-27    

RESP
Response same as Sunday
-the rest.

VESPERS

HYMN p. ?

READING
Thursday after Ash Wednesday & Weeks 1-4:    Jas 4:7-8, 10    
Week 5:    Heb 13:12-15    

MAGNIFICAT:
Thursday after Ash Wednesday:	Whoever gives up his life for my sake in this world will find it again for ever in the next, say the Lord.
Week 1:	Ask and you shall receive, seek and you shall find, knock and the door shall be opened to you.
Week 2:	The rich man, who had refused Lazarus a crust of bread, pleaded for a drop of water.
Week 3:	A woman in the crowd called out: How happy your mother must be, she bore you and fed you at her breast. But Jesus answered: Happier still those who hear the word of God and live by it.
Week 4:	The works that I do speak on my behalf, says the Lord. They prove that the Father has sent me.
Week 5:	You are not yet fifty years old; how can you have seen Abraham? In very truth I tell you, before Abraham was, I AM.
