FEBRUARY 2
PRESENTATION OF THE LORD
Feast

PRAYER:
Almighty ever-living God, we humbly implore your majesty that, just as your Only Begotten Son was presented on this day in the Temple in the substance of our flesh, so, by your grace, we may be presented to you with minds made pure. Through our Lord Jesus Christ, your Son, who lives and reigns with you in the unity of the Holy Spirit, one God, for ever and ever.

Hymn #proper:presentationofthelord:hymn
Hail to the Lord who comes,
Comes to his temple gate,
Not with his angel hosts,
Not in his kingly state;

But borne upon the throne
Of Mary’s gentle breast;
Thus to his Father’s house
He comes, a humble guest.

The world’s true light draws near
All darkness to dispel,
The flame of faith is lit
And dies the power of hell.

Our bodies and our souls
Are temples now for him,
For we are born of grace-
God lights our souls within.

O Light of all the earth!
We light our lives with thee;
The chains of darkness gone
All sons of God are free. Amen.

FIRST VESPERS (if the feast falls on Sunday)

PSALMODY: and ANTIPHONS from the Nativity p. @christmas:nativity

READING: Heb 10:5-7 When Christ came into the world, he said, “Sacrifices and offerings thou hast not desired, but a body hast thou prepared for me; in burnt offerings and sin offerings thou hast taken no pleasure. Then I said, ‘Lo, I have come to do thy will, O God,’ as it is written of me in the roll of the book.”

MAGNIFICAT: Today the Blessed Virgin Mary presented the Child Jesus in the temple; and Simeon, inspired by the Holy Spirit, took him in his arms, and gave thanks to God.

VIGILS

PSALMODY: AND ANTIPHONS from the Nativity p. @christmas:nativity

LAUDS

INVITATORY
Come, let us worship the Lord of creation;
-He enters his holy temple

ANTIPHONS from Christmas p. @christmas:nativity

PSALMODY: ps 23 - OT18 - ps 148 - ps 149 - ps 150

READING: Mal 3:1 Behold, I send my messenger to prepare the way before me, and the Lord whom you seek will suddenly come to his temple; the messenger of the covenant in whom you delight, behold, he is coming, says the LORD of hosts.

BENEDICTUS: When the parents of Jesus brought him into the temple, Simeon took him in his arms and gave thanks to God.

SEXT

PSALMODY: and ANTIPHONS of the weekday

READING: 1 Jn 1:2 The life was made manifest, and we saw it, and testify to it, and proclaim to you the eternal life which was with the Father and was made manifest to us.

RESP
All the ends of the earth have seen the saving power of God.
-Sing with joy to God, all the earth.

SECOND VESPERS

PSALMODY: and ANTIPHONS from the Nativity, except: Ps 109 ant Chr

READING: Heb 4:15- 16 We have not a high priest who is unable to sympathize with our weaknesses, but one who in every respect has been tempted as we are, yet without sin. Let us then with confidence draw near to the throne of grace, that we may receive mercy and find grace to help in time of need.

MAGNIFICAT: Today the Blessed Virgin Mary presented the Child Jesus in the temple; and Simeon, inspired by the Holy Spirit, took him in his arms, and gave thanks to God.


