

Psalm 18

1 I love you, Lord, my strength;
3 O Lord, my rock, my fortress, my savior;
my God, my rock where I take refuge;
my shield, my saving strength, my stronghold.
4 I cry out, “Praised be the Lord!”
and see, I am saved from my foes.

5 The waves of death rose about me;
the torrents of destruction assailed me;
6 the snares of the grave surrounded me;
the traps of death confronted me.

7 In my anguish I called to the Lord;
I cried to my God for help.
From his temple he heard my voice;
my cry to him reached his ears.

8 The earth then reeled and rocked;
the mountains were shaken to their base;
they quaked at his terrible anger.

9 Smoke came forth from his nostrils,
and scorching fire from his mouth;
from him were kindled live coals.

10 He bent the heavens and came down,
a black cloud was under his feet.
11 On a cherub, he rode and he flew;
he soared on the wings of the wind.

12 He made the darkness his covering,
the dark waters of the clouds, his tent.
13 A brightness shone out before him,
with hailstones and flashes of fire.

14 The Lord then thundered in the heavens;
the Most High let his voice be heard,
with hail and coals of fire.
15 He shot his arrows, scattered the foe,
flashed his lightnings, and put them to flight.

16 The bed of the ocean was revealed;
the foundations of the world were laid bare
at your rebuke, O Lord,
at the blast of the breath of your nostrils.

17 From on high he reached down and seized me;
he drew me forth from the mighty waters.
18 He saved me from my powerful foe,
from my enemies, whose strength I could not match.

19 They assailed me in the day of my misfortune,
but the Lord was my strong support.
20  He brought me out to a place of freedom;
he saved me because he loved me.

21 The Lord rewarded me because I was just,
repaid me, for my hands were clean,
22 for I have kept the ways of the Lord,
and have not fallen away from my God.

23 For his judgments are all before me;
his commands I have not cast aside.
24 I have been blameless before him;
I have kept myself from guilt.
25 The Lord repaid me because I was just,
and my hands were clean in his eyes.

26 With the faithful you show yourself faithful;
with the blameless you show yourself blameless.
27 With the sincere you show yourself sincere,
but the cunning you outdo in shrewdness;
28 for you save a lowly people,
but bring low the eyes that are proud.

29 It is you who give light to my lamp;
the Lord my God lightens my darkness.
30  With you I can break through a barrier,
with my God I can scale a wall.

31 As for God, his way is blameless;
the word of the Lord is pure.
He indeed is the shield
of all who trust in him.

32 For who is God but the Lord?
Who is a rock but our God?
33 It is God who girds me with strength,
and keeps my path free of blame.

34 My feet he makes swift as the deer’s;
he has made me stand firm on the heights.
35 He has trained my hands for battle,
and my arms to bend the bronze bow.

36 You gave me your saving shield;
with your right hand, you gave me support;
you bent down to make me great.
37 You lengthened my steps beneath me;
and my feet have never slipped.

38 I pursued and overtook my foes,
never turning back till they were slain.
39 I struck them so they could not rise;
they fell beneath my feet.

40 You girded me with strength for battle;
you made my enemies fall beneath me.
41 You made my foes take flight;
those who hated me I destroyed.

42 They cried out, but there was no one to save them,
cried to the Lord, but he did not answer.
43 I crushed them fine as dust before the wind,
trod them down like dirt in the streets.

44 From the feuds of the people you delivered me,
and put me at the head of the nations.
People unknown to me served me;
45 when they heard of me, they obeyed me.

Foreign nations came to me cringing;
46 foreign nations faded away.
Trembling, they came forth from their strongholds.

47 The Lord lives, and blest be my Rock!
May the God of my salvation be exalted,
48 the God who gives me redress
and subdues the peoples under me.

49 You saved me from my furious foes;
you set me above my assailants;
you saved me from the violent man.
50 So I will praise you, Lord, among the nations;
to your name will I sing a psalm.

51 The Lord gives great victories to his king,
and shows merciful love for his anointed,
for David and his seed forever.

Now and forever. Amen.
