

Psalm 105

1 Give thanks to the Lord; proclaim his name.
Make known his deeds among the peoples.

2 O sing to him, sing his praise;
tell all his wonderful works!
3 Glory in his holy name;
let the hearts that seek the Lord rejoice.

4 Turn to the Lord and his strength;
constantly seek his face.
5 Remember the wonders he has done,
his marvels and his words of judgment.

6 O children of Abraham, his servant,
O descendants of the Jacob he chose,
7 he, the Lord, is our God;
his judgments are in all the earth.

8 He remembers his covenant forever:
the promise he ordained for a thousand generations,
9 the covenant he made with Abraham,
the oath he swore to Isaac.

10 He confirmed it for Jacob as a law,
for Israel as a covenant forever,
11 saying, “I will give you the land of Canaan
to be your allotted inheritance.”

12 When they were few in number,
a handful of strangers in the land,
13 when they wandered from nation to nation,
from one kingdom and people to another,

14 He allowed no one to oppress them;
he admonished kings on their account,
15 saying, “Those I have anointed, do not touch;
do no harm to any of my prophets.”

16 But he called down a famine on the land;
he broke their staff of bread.
17 He had sent a man ahead of them,
Joseph, sold as a slave.

18 His feet were weighed down in chains,
his neck was bound with iron,
19 until what he said came to pass,
and the word of the Lord proved him true.

20  Then the king sent orders and released him;
the ruler of the peoples set him free.
21 He made him master of his house
and ruler of all his possessions,
22 to instruct his princes from his heart,
and to teach his elders wisdom.

23 So Israel came into Egypt;
Jacob dwelt in the land of Ham.
24 He gave his people great increase;
he made them stronger than their foes,
25 whose hearts he turned to hate his people,
and to deal deceitfully with his servants.

26 Then he sent Moses his servant,
and Aaron whom he had chosen.
27 They performed God’s signs among them,
and his wonders in the land of Ham.

28 He sent darkness, and dark was made,
but they rebelled against his words.
29 He turned their waters into blood,
and caused their fish to die.

30  Their land was overrun by frogs,
even to the halls of their kings.
31 He spoke; there came swarms of flies,
and gnats covered all the country.

32 He sent hailstones in place of the rain,
and lightning flashing in their land.
33 He struck their vines and fig trees;
he shattered the trees through their country.

34 He spoke; the locusts came forth,
young locusts, too many to be counted.
35 They ate up every plant in the land;
they ate up all the fruit of their fields.

36 He struck all the firstborn in their land,
the first fruit of all their strength.
37 He led out Israel with silver and gold.
In his tribes were none who stumbled.

38 Egypt rejoiced when they left,
for dread had fallen upon them.
39 He spread a cloud as a screen,
and fire to illumine the night.

40  When they asked he sent them quails;
he filled them with bread from heaven.
41 He pierced the rock and water gushed forth;
it flowed as a river in the desert.

42 For he remembered his holy word,
spoken to Abraham his servant.
43 So he brought out his people with joy,
his chosen ones with shouts of rejoicing.

44 And he gave them the lands of the nations.
Of other peoples they possessed the toil,
45 that thus they might keep his precepts,
that thus they might observe his laws.

Alleluia!

Now and forever. Amen.
