Psalm 89

2 I will sing forever of your mercies, O Lord;
through all ages my mouth will proclaim your fidelity.
3 I have declared your mercy is established forever;
your fidelity stands firm as the heavens.

4 “With my chosen one I have made a covenant;
I have sworn to David my servant:
5 I will establish your descendants forever,
and set up your throne through all ages.”

6 The heavens praise your wonders, O Lord,
your fidelity in the assembly of your holy ones.
7 For who in the skies can compare with the Lord,
or who is like the Lord among the heavenly powers?
8 A God to be feared in the council of the holy ones,
great and awesome to all around him.

9 O Lord God of hosts, who is your equal?
You are mighty, O Lord, and fidelity surrounds you.
10 It is you who rule the raging of the sea;
it is you who still the surging of its waves.
11 It is you who crush Rahab underfoot like a corpse;
you scatter your foes with your mighty arm.

12 The heavens are yours, the earth is yours;
you have founded the world and its fullness;
13 it is you who created the North and the South.
Tabor and Hermon shout for joy at your name.

14 Yours is a mighty arm.
Your hand is strong; your right hand is exalted.
15 Justice and right judgment are the pillars of your throne;
merciful love and fidelity walk in your presence.

16 How blessed the people who know your praise,
who walk, O Lord, in the light of your face,
17 who find their joy every day in your name,
who make your justice their joyful acclaim.

18 For you are the glory of their strength;
by your favor it is that our might is exalted.
19 Behold, the Lord is our shield;
he is the Holy One of Israel, our king.

20  Then you spoke in a vision.
To your faithful ones you said,
“I have set the crown on a warrior,
I have exalted one chosen from the people.

21 I have found my servant David,
and with my holy oil anointed him.
22 My hand shall always be with him,
and my arm shall make him strong.

23 The enemy shall never outwit him,
nor shall the son of iniquity humble him.
24 I will beat down his foes before him,
and those who hate him I will strike.

25 My mercy and my faithfulness shall be with him;
by my name his might shall be exalted.
26 I will stretch out his hand to the Sea,
and his right hand upon the Rivers.

27 He will call out to me, ‘You are my father,
my God, the rock of my salvation.’
28 I for my part will make him my firstborn,
the highest of the kings of the earth.

29 I will keep my faithful love for him always;
with him my covenant shall last.
30  I will establish his descendants forever,
and his throne as lasting as the days of heaven.

31 If his descendants forsake my law
and refuse to walk as I decree,
32 and if ever they violate my statutes,
failing to keep my commands:

33 Then I will punish their offenses with the rod;
then I will scourge them on account of their guilt.
34 But I will never take back my mercy;
my fidelity will never fail.
35 I will never violate my covenant,
nor go back on the promise of my lips.

36 Once for all, I have sworn by my holiness.
‘I will never lie to David.
37 His descendants shall continue forever.
In my sight his throne is like the sun;
38 like the moon, it shall endure forever,
a faithful witness in the heavens.’”

39 But yet you have spurned and rejected,
you are angry with the one you have anointed.
40  You have renounced your covenant with your servant,
and dishonored his crown in the dust.

41 You have broken down all his walls,
and reduced his fortresses to ruins.
42 All who pass by despoil him;
he has become the taunt of his neighbors.

43 You have exalted the right hand of his foes;
you have made all his enemies rejoice.
44 You have turned back the edge of his sword;
you have not upheld him in battle.

45 You have brought his glory to an end;
you have hurled his throne to the ground.
46 You have cut short the days of his youth;
you have heaped disgrace upon him.

47 How long, O Lord? Will you hide yourself forever?
How long will your anger burn like a fire?
48 Remember the shortness of my life,
and how frail you have made the children of men.
49 What man can live and never see death?
Who can save himself from the grasp of the tomb?

50  Where are your mercies of the past, O Lord,
which you swore in your faithfulness to David?
51 Remember, O Lord, the taunts to your servant,
how I have to bear all the insults of the peoples.
52 Thus your enemies lift up a taunt, O Lord,
taunting your anointed at every step.

* * *

53 Blest be the Lord forever.
Amen and amen!

Now and forever. Amen.
