

Psalm 69

2 Save me, O God, for the waters
have risen to my neck.
3 I have sunk into the mud of the deep,
where there is no foothold.
I have entered the waters of the deep,
where the flood overwhelms me.

4 I am wearied with crying aloud;
my throat is parched.
My eyes are wasted away
with waiting for my God.

5 More numerous than the hairs on my head
are those who hate me without cause.
Many are those who attack me,
enemies with lies.
What I have never stolen,
how can I restore?

6 O God, you know my folly;
from you my sins are not hidden.
7 May those who hope in you not be shamed
because of me, O Lord of hosts;
may those who seek you not be put to shame
because of me, O God of Israel.

8 It is for you that I suffer taunts,
that shame has covered my face.
9 To my own kin I have become an outcast,
a stranger to the children of my mother.
10 Zeal for your house consumes me,
and taunts against you fall on me.

11 When my soul wept bitterly in fasting,
they made it a taunt against me.
12 When I made my clothing sackcloth,
I became a reproach to them, 
13 the gossip of those at the gates,
the theme of drunkards’ songs.

14 But I pray to you, O Lord,
for a time of your favor.
In your great mercy, answer me, O God,
with your salvation that never fails.

15 Rescue me from sinking in the mud;
from those who hate me, deliver me.
Save me from the waters of the deep,
16 lest the waves overwhelm me.
Let not the deep engulf me,
nor the pit close its mouth on me.

17 Lord, answer, for your mercy is kind;
in your great compassion, turn towards me.
18 Do not hide your face from your servant;
answer me quickly, for I am in distress.
19 Come close to my soul and redeem me;
ransom me because of my foes.

20  You know my taunts, my shame, my dishonor;
my oppressors are all before you.
21 Taunts have broken my heart;
here I am in anguish.
I looked for solace, but there was none;
for consolers—not one could I find.

22 For food they gave me gall;
in my thirst they gave me vinegar to drink.
23 Let their table be a snare to them,
and for their friends, a trap.
24 Let their eyes grow dim and blind;
let their limbs continually tremble.

25 Pour out your anger upon them;
let your burning fury overtake them.
26 Let their camp be left desolate;
let no one dwell in their tents:
27 for they persecute one whom you struck;
they increase the pain of one whom you wounded.

28 Charge them with guilt upon guilt;
let them have no share in your justice.
29 Blot them out from the book of the living;
do not enroll them among the just.
30  As for me in my poverty and pain,
let your salvation, O God, raise me up.

31 Then I will praise God’s name with a song;
I will glorify him with thanksgiving:
32 a gift pleasing God more than oxen,
more than a bull with horns and hoofs.

33 The poor when they see it will be glad,
and God-seeking hearts will revive;
34 for the Lord listens to the needy,
and does not spurn his own in their chains.
35 Let the heavens and the earth give him praise,
the seas and everything that moves in them.

36 For God will bring salvation to Sion,
and rebuild the cities of Judah,
and they shall dwell there in possession.
37 The children of his servants shall inherit it;
those who love his name shall dwell there.

Now and forever. Amen.
