

Psalm 104

1 Bless the Lord, O my soul!
O Lord my God, how great you are,
clothed in majesty and honor,
2 wrapped in light as with a robe!

You stretch out the heavens like a tent.
3 On the waters you establish your dwelling.
You make the clouds your chariot;
you ride on the wings of the wind.
4 You make the winds your messengers,
flame and fire your servants.

5 You set the earth on its foundation,
immovable from age to age.
6 You wrapped it with the depths like a cloak;
the waters stood higher than the mountains.
7 At your threat they took to flight;
at the voice of your thunder they fled.

8 The mountains rose, the valleys descended,
to the place which you had appointed them.
9 You set limits they might not pass,
lest they return to cover the earth.

10 You make springs gush forth in the valleys;
they flow in between the hills.
11 They give drink to all the beasts of the field;
the wild asses quench their thirst.
12 There the birds of heaven build their nests;
from the branches they sing their song.

13 From your dwelling you water the hills;
by your works the earth has its fill.

14 You make the grass grow for the cattle
and plants to serve mankind’s need.
That he may bring forth bread from the earth
15 and wine to cheer the heart;
oil, to make faces shine,
and bread to strengthen the heart of man.

16 The trees of the Lord drink their fill,
the cedars he planted on Lebanon;
17 there the birds build their nests;
on the treetop the stork has her home.
18 For the goats the lofty mountains,
for the rabbits the rocks are a refuge.

19 You made the moon to mark the months;
the sun knows the time for its setting.
20  You spread the darkness, it is night,
and all the beasts of the forest creep forth.
21 The young lions roar for their prey,
and seek their food from God.

22 At the rising of the sun they gather;
and they go to lie down in their dens.
23 Man goes forth to his work,
to labor till evening falls.

24 How many are your works, O Lord!
In wisdom you have made them all.
The earth is full of your creatures.

25 Vast and wide is the span of the sea,
with its creeping things past counting,
living things great and small.
26 The ships are moving there,
and Leviathan you made to play with.

27 All of these look to you
to give them their food in due season.
28 You give it, they gather it up;
you open wide your hand, they are well filled.

29 You hide your face, they are dismayed;
you take away their breath, they die,
returning to the dust from which they came.
30  You send forth your spirit, and they are created,
and you renew the face of the earth.

31 May the glory of the Lord last forever!
May the Lord rejoice in his works!
32 He looks on the earth and it trembles;
he touches the mountains and they smoke.

33 I will sing to the Lord all my life,
sing psalms to my God while I live.
34 May my thoughts be pleasing to him.
I will rejoice in the Lord.

35 Let sinners vanish from the earth,
and the wicked exist no more.
Bless the Lord, O my soul.

Alleluia!

Now and forever. Amen.
