Psalm 44

2 We heard with our own ears, O God;
our forebears have declared to us
the things you did in their days,
you yourself, in days long ago.

3 With your own hand you drove out the nations,
but them you planted;
you brought affliction on the peoples;
but them you set free.

4 No sword of their own won the land;
no arm of their own brought them victory.
It was your right hand and your arm,
and the light of your face, for you loved them.

5 You are my king, O God;
you command the victories for Jacob.
6 Through you we beat down our foes;
in your name we trampled our aggressors.

7 For it was not in my bow that I trusted,
nor yet was I saved by my sword:
8 it was you who saved us from our foes;
those who hate us, you put to shame.
9 All day long our boast was in God,
and we will praise your name forever.

10 Yet now you have rejected us, disgraced us;
you no longer go forth with our armies.
11 You make us retreat from the foe;
those who hate us plunder us at will.

12 You make us like sheep for the slaughter,
and scatter us among the nations.
13 You sell your own people for nothing,
and make no profit by the sale.

14 You make us the taunt of our neighbors,
the mockery and scorn of those around us.
15 Among the nations you make us a byword;
among the peoples they shake their heads.

16 All day long my disgrace is before me;
my face is covered with shame
17 at the voice of the taunter, the scoffer,
at the sight of the foe and avenger.

18 This befell us though we had not forgotten you;
we were not false to your covenant.
19 We had not withdrawn our hearts;
our feet had not strayed from your path.
20  Yet you have crushed us in a haunt of jackals,
and covered us with the shadow of death.

21 Had we forgotten the name of our God,
or stretched out our hands to a strange god,
22 would not God have found this out,
he who knows the secrets of the heart?
23 It is for you we are slain all day long,
and are counted as sheep for the slaughter.

24 Awake, O Lord! Why do you sleep?
Arise! Do not reject us forever.
25 Why do you hide your face,
and forget our oppression and misery?

26 For our soul is brought low to the dust;
our body lies prostrate on the earth.
27 Stand up and come to our help!
Redeem us with your merciful love!
