Psalm 78 B

40  They rebelled against him often in the desert, 
and caused him pain in the wasteland!

41 Yet again they turned and tested God;
they provoked the Holy One of Israel.
42 They failed to remember his deeds
on the day he saved them from the foe,
43 when he worked his signs in Egypt,
his wonders in the plains of Zoan.

44 He turned their rivers into blood;
they could not drink from their streams.
45 He sent swarms of insects to devour them,
and frogs to destroy them.
46 He gave their crops to insects,
the fruit of their labor to the locust.

47 He destroyed their vines with hail,
their sycamore trees with frost.
48 He gave up their cattle to hail,
their herds to darts of lightning.

49 He unleashed on them the heat of his anger,
fury, rage, and havoc,
a troop of destroying angels.

50  He leveled a path for his anger.
He did not spare their lives from death,
but gave their livestock to the plague.
51 He struck all the firstborn in Egypt,
the first vigor of youth from the dwellings of Ham.

52 Then he brought forth his people like sheep;
like a flock he led them in the desert.
53 He led them safely with nothing to fear,
while the sea engulfed their foes.

54 So he brought them to his holy land,
to the mountain his right hand had won.
55 He drove out the nations before them,
and apportioned to each their heritage.
The tribes of Israel he settled in their tents.

56 With defiance they tested God Most High;
they refused to obey his decrees.
57 They strayed, faithless like their fathers;
they betrayed him like a treacherous bow.
58 They provoked God to wrath with their high places,
made him jealous with the idols they served.

59 God heard this and was filled with fury;
he utterly rejected Israel.
60  He forsook his dwelling place in Shiloh,
the tent where he dwelt with man.

61 He gave his strength into captivity,
his splendor to the hands of the foe.
62 He gave up his people to the sword,
and showed his anger against his heritage.

63 So fire devoured their young men,
their maidens had no wedding songs;
64 their priests fell by the sword,
and their widows made no lament.

65 Then the Lord awoke as if from sleep,
like a warrior maddened by wine.
66 He struck his foes from behind,
and put them to shame forever.

67 He rejected the tent of Joseph.
He did not choose the tribe of Ephraim,
68 but he chose the tribe of Judah,
the mountain of Sion which he loves.
69 He built his shrine like the heavens,
or like the earth which he founded forever.

70  And he chose his servant David,
and took him away from the sheepfolds.
71 From the care of the ewes he brought him
to be shepherd of Jacob his people,
of Israel his own possession.

72 He tended them with blameless heart;
with his skillful hands he led them.
