

Psalm 78

1 Give ear, my people, to my teaching;
incline your ear to the words of my mouth.
2 I will open my mouth in a parable
and utter hidden lessons of the past.

3 The things we have heard and understood,
the things our fathers have told us,
4 these we will not hide from their children
but will tell them to the next generation:
the glories of the Lord and his might,
and the marvelous deeds he has done.

5 He established a decree in Jacob;
in Israel he set up a law.
To our fathers he gave a command
to make it known to their children,
6 that the next generation might know it,
the children yet to be born.

They should arise and declare it to their children, 
7 that they should set their hope in God,
and never forget God’s deeds,
but keep every one of his commands,

8 So that they might not be like their fathers,
a defiant and rebellious generation,
a generation whose heart was fickle,
whose spirit was not faithful to God.

9 The sons of Ephraim, armed with the bow,
turned back in the day of battle.
10 They failed to keep God’s covenant,
refused to walk according to his law.

11 They forgot the things he had done,
the wondrous works he had shown them.
12 He did wonders in the sight of their fathers,
in Egypt, in the plains of Zoan.

13 He divided the sea and led them through,
and made the waters stand up like a wall.
14 By day he led them with a cloud;
throughout the night, with a light of fire.

15 He split the rocks in the desert.
He gave them plentiful drink, as from the deep.
16 He made streams flow out from the rock,
and made waters run down like rivers.

17 Yet still they sinned against him,
rebelled against the Most High in the desert.
18 In their heart they put God to the test
by demanding the food they craved.

19 They spoke against God and said:
“Can God spread a table in the wilderness?
20  See, he struck the rock:
water gushed forth and swept down in torrents.
But can he also give us bread?
Can he provide meat for his people?”

21 When he heard this, the Lord was angry.
A fire was kindled against Jacob;
his anger rose against Israel.
22 For they had no faith in God,
and did not trust his saving power.

23 Yet he commanded the clouds above,
and opened the gates of heaven.
24 He rained down manna to eat,
and gave them bread from heaven.

25 Man ate the bread of angels.
He sent them abundance of food;
26 the east wind he stirred up in the heavens,
the south wind he directed by his might.

27 He rained flesh upon them like dust,
winged fowl like the sands of the sea.
28 He let it fall in the midst of their camp,
and all around their tents.

29 So they ate and had their fill,
what they craved, he gave them.

30  But before they had sated their hunger,
while the food was still in their mouths,
31 God’s anger rose against them.
He slew the strongest among them,
struck down the flower of Israel.

32 Despite all this, they kept on sinning;
they failed to believe in his wonders.
33 So he ended their days like a breath,
and their years in sudden terror.

34 When he slew them, then they sought him,
repented and earnestly sought God. 
35 They would remember that God was their rock,
God the Most High their redeemer.

36 Yet they deceived him with their mouths;
they lied to him with their tongues.
37 For their hearts were not steadfast toward him;
they were not faithful to his covenant.

38 Yet he who is full of compassion
forgave them their sin and spared them.
So often he held back his anger,
and did not stir up all his rage.

39 He remembered they were only flesh,
a breath that passes, never to return.
40  They rebelled against him often in the desert, 
and caused him pain in the wasteland!

41 Yet again they turned and tested God;
they provoked the Holy One of Israel.
42 They failed to remember his deeds
on the day he saved them from the foe,
43 when he worked his signs in Egypt,
his wonders in the plains of Zoan.

44 He turned their rivers into blood;
they could not drink from their streams.
45 He sent swarms of insects to devour them,
and frogs to destroy them.
46 He gave their crops to insects,
the fruit of their labor to the locust.

47 He destroyed their vines with hail,
their sycamore trees with frost.
48 He gave up their cattle to hail,
their herds to darts of lightning.

49 He unleashed on them the heat of his anger,
fury, rage, and havoc,
a troop of destroying angels.

50  He leveled a path for his anger.
He did not spare their lives from death,
but gave their livestock to the plague.
51 He struck all the firstborn in Egypt,
the first vigor of youth from the dwellings of Ham.

52 Then he brought forth his people like sheep;
like a flock he led them in the desert.
53 He led them safely with nothing to fear,
while the sea engulfed their foes.

54 So he brought them to his holy land,
to the mountain his right hand had won.
55 He drove out the nations before them,
and apportioned to each their heritage.
The tribes of Israel he settled in their tents.

56 With defiance they tested God Most High;
they refused to obey his decrees.
57 They strayed, faithless like their fathers;
they betrayed him like a treacherous bow.
58 They provoked God to wrath with their high places,
made him jealous with the idols they served.

59 God heard this and was filled with fury;
he utterly rejected Israel.
60  He forsook his dwelling place in Shiloh,
the tent where he dwelt with man.

61 He gave his strength into captivity,
his splendor to the hands of the foe.
62 He gave up his people to the sword,
and showed his anger against his heritage.

63 So fire devoured their young men,
their maidens had no wedding songs;
64 their priests fell by the sword,
and their widows made no lament.

65 Then the Lord awoke as if from sleep,
like a warrior maddened by wine.
66 He struck his foes from behind,
and put them to shame forever.

67 He rejected the tent of Joseph.
He did not choose the tribe of Ephraim,
68 but he chose the tribe of Judah,
the mountain of Sion which he loves.
69 He built his shrine like the heavens,
or like the earth which he founded forever.

70  And he chose his servant David,
and took him away from the sheepfolds.
71 From the care of the ewes he brought him
to be shepherd of Jacob his people,
of Israel his own possession.

72 He tended them with blameless heart;
with his skillful hands he led them.

Now and forever. Amen.
