Psalm 109

1 O God whom I praise, do not be silent,
2 for the mouths of deceit and wickedness
are opened against me.

3 They speak to me with lying tongues;
they beset me with words of hate,
and attack me without cause.

4 In return for my love, they accuse me,
while I am at prayer.
5 They repay me evil for good,
hatred for love.

* * *

6 Appoint someone wicked over him;
let an accuser stand at his right.
7 When he is judged, let him come out condemned;
let his prayer be considered as sin.

8 Let the days of his life be few;
let another assume his office.
9 Let his children be fatherless orphans,
and his wife become a widow.

10 Let his children be wanderers and beggars,
driven from the ruins of their home.
11 Let the creditor seize all his goods;
let strangers take the fruit of his work.

12 Let no one show him any mercy,
nor pity his fatherless children.
13 Let his posterity be destroyed,
in a generation his name blotted out.

14 Let his father’s guilt be remembered to the Lord,
his mother’s sin be retained.
15 Let it always stand before the Lord,
that their memory be cut off from the earth.

16 For he did not think of showing mercy,
but pursued the poor and the needy,
hounding to death the brokenhearted.
17 He loved cursing; let curses fall on him.
He scorned blessing; let blessing pass him by.

18 He put on cursing like his coat:
let it sink into his body like water;
let it sink like oil into his bones.
19 Let it be like the clothes that cover him,
like a belt he wears all the time.

20  Let the Lord thus repay my accusers,
all those who speak evil against me.
21 But you, O Lord, my Lord,
do with me as befits your name.
How good your merciful love! Deliver me.

22 For I am poor and needy,
and my heart is pierced within me.
23 I fade like an evening shadow;
I am shaken off like a locust.

24 My knees are weak from fasting;
my body is thin and gaunt.
25 I have become an object of scorn;
when they see me they shake their heads.

26 Help me, Lord my God;
save me with your merciful love.
27 Let them know that this is your hand,
that this is your doing, O Lord.

28 They may curse, but you will bless.
Let my attackers be put to shame,
but let your servant rejoice.
29 Let my accusers be clothed with dishonor,
covered with shame as with a cloak.

30  Loud thanks to the Lord are on my lips.
I will praise him in the midst of the throng,
31 for he stands at the right hand of the poor,
to save his soul from those who condemn him.
