

Psalm 107

1 “O give thanks to the Lord for he is good;
for his mercy endures forever.”
2 Let the redeemed of the Lord say this,
those he redeemed from the hand of the foe,
3 and gathered from far-off lands,
from east and west, north and south.

4 They wandered in a barren desert,
finding no way to a city they could dwell in.
5 Hungry they were and thirsty;
their soul was fainting within them.

6 Then they cried to the Lord in their need,
and he rescued them from their distress,
7 and he guided them along a straight path,
to reach a city they could dwell in.

8 Let them thank the Lord for his mercy,
his wonders for the children of men;
9 for he satisfies the thirsty soul,
and the hungry he fills with good things.

10 Some dwelt in darkness and the shadow of death,
prisoners in misery and chains,
11 having rebelled against the words of God,
and spurned the plan of the Most High.
12 He humbled their heart with toil.
They stumbled; there was no one to help.

13 Then they cried to the Lord in their need,
and he rescued them from their distress.
14 He led them out of darkness and the shadow of death,
and broke their chains to pieces.

15 Let them thank the Lord for his mercy,
his wonders for the children of men;
16 for he bursts the gates of bronze,
and cuts through the iron bars.

17 Some fell sick on account of their sins,
and were afflicted on account of their guilt.
18 They had a loathing for every food;
they drew near to the gates of death.

19 Then they cried to the Lord in their need,
and he rescued them from their distress.
20  He sent forth his word to heal them,
and saved their life from destruction.

21 Let them thank the Lord for his mercy,
his wonders for the children of men.
22 Let them offer a sacrifice of thanks,
and tell of his deeds with rejoicing.

23 Some went down to the sea in ships,
to trade on the mighty waters.
24 These have seen the deeds of the Lord,
the wonders he does in the deep.

25 For he spoke and raised up the storm-wind,
tossing high the waves of the sea
26 that surged to heaven and dropped to the depths.
Their souls melted away in their distress.

27 They staggered and reeled like drunkards,
for all their skill was gone.
28 Then they cried to the Lord in their need,
and he rescued them from their distress.

29 He stilled the storm to a whisper,
and the waves of the sea were hushed.
30  They rejoiced because of the calm,
and he led them to the haven they desired.

31 Let them thank the Lord for his mercy,
his wonders for the children of men.
32 Let them exalt him in the assembly of the people,
and praise him in the meeting of the elders.

33 He changes rivers into desert,
springs of water into thirsty ground,
34 fruitful land into a salty waste,
for the wickedness of those who live there.

35 He changes desert into pools of water,
thirsty ground into springs of water.
36 There he settles the hungry,
and they establish a city to dwell in.

37 They sow fields and plant their vines,
which yield an abundant harvest.
38 He blesses them; they grow in numbers.
He does not let their cattle decrease.

40  He pours contempt upon princes,
makes them wander in trackless wastes.
39 They are diminished and brought low
by oppression, evil, and sorrow.

41 But he raises the needy from distress;
makes families numerous as a flock.
42 The upright see it and rejoice,
while all the wicked close their mouths.

43 Should not one who is wise recall these things,
and understand the merciful deeds of the Lord?

Now and forever. Amen.
