Psalm 71

1 In yóu, O Lórd, I take réfuge;
let me néver be pút to sháme.
2 In your jústice, réscue me, frée me;
inclíne your éar to me and sáve me.

3 Be my róck, my cónstant réfuge,
a míghty strónghold to sáve me,
for yóu are my róck, my strónghold.
4 My God, frée me from the hánd of the wícked,
from the gríp of the unjúst, of the oppréssor.

5 It is yóu, O Lórd, who are my hópe,
my trúst, O Lórd, from my yóuth.
6 On yóu I have léaned from my bírth;
from my mother’s wómb, you have béen my hélp.
At all tímes I gíve you práise.

7 My fáte has filled mány with áwe,
but yóu are my míghty réfuge.
8 My móuth is fílled with your práise,
with your glóry, áll the day lóng.
9 Do not rejéct me nów that I am óld;
when my stréngth fails dó not forsáke me.

10 For my énemies are spéaking abóut me;
those who wátch me take cóunsel togéther,
11 saying: ``Gód has forsáken him; fóllow him.
Séize him; there is nó one to sáve him."
12 O Gód, do not stáy afar óff;
O my Gód, make háste to hélp me!

13 Let them be pút to sháme and destróyed,
thóse who séek my lífe.
Let them be cóvered with sháme and confúsion,
thóse who séek to hárm me.

14 But as for mé, I will álways hópe,
and práise you móre and móre.
15 My móuth will téll of your jústice,
and áll the day lóng of your salvátion,
though I can néver téll it áll.

16 I will cóme with práise of your míght, O Lórd;
I will cáll to mínd your jústice,
yóurs, O Lórd, alóne.
17 O Gód, you have táught me from my yóuth,
and I procláim your wónders stíll.

18 Even tíll I am óld and gray-héaded,
dó not forsáke me, O Gód.
Let me téll of your míghty árm
to évery cóming generátion;
19 your stréngth and your justice, O Gód,
réach to the híghest héavens.
It is yóu who have wórked such wónders.
O Gód, whó is like yóu?

20  You have made me wítness many tróubles and évils,
but you will gíve me báck my lífe.
You will ráise me from the dépths of the éarth;
21 you will exált me and consóle me agáin.

22 So I will gíve you thánks on the lýre
for your fáithfulness, Ó my Gód.
To yóu will I síng with the hárp,
to yóu, the Hóly One of Ísrael.
23 When I síng to you, my líps shall shout for jóy,
and my sóul, which yóu have redéemed.

24 And áll the day lóng my tóngue
shall téll the tále of your jústice,
for they are pút to sháme and disgráced,
thóse who séek to hárm me.
