Psalm 105

1 Give thánks to the Lórd; proclaim his náme.
Make knówn his déeds among the péoples.

2 O síng to him, síng his práise;
téll all his wónderful wórks!
3 Glóry in his hóly náme;
let the héarts that seek the Lórd rejóice.

4 Túrn to the Lórd and his stréngth;
cónstantly séek his fáce.
5 Remémber the wónders he has dóne,
his márvels and his wórds of júdgment.

6 O chíldren of Ábraham, his sérvant,
O descéndants of the Jácob he chóse,
7 hé, the Lórd, is our Gód;
his júdgments are in áll the éarth.

8 He remémbers his cóvenant foréver:
the prómise he ordáined for a thóusand generátions,
9 the cóvenant he máde with Ábraham,
the óath he swóre to Ísaac.

10 He confírmed it for Jácob as a láw,
for Ísrael as a cóvenant foréver,
11 saying, ``I will gíve you the lánd of Cánaan
to bé your allótted inhéritance."

12 When théy were féw in númber,
a hándful of strángers in the lánd,
13 when they wándered from nátion to nátion,
from one kíngdom and péople to anóther,

14 He allówed nó one to oppréss them;
he admónished kíngs on their accóunt,
15 saying, ``Thóse I have anóinted, do not tóuch;
do no hárm to ány of my próphets."

16 But he cálled down a fámine on the lánd;
he bróke their stáff of bréad.
17 He had sént a mán ahéad of them,
Jóseph, sóld as a sláve.

18 His féet were wéighed down in cháins,
his néck was bóund with íron,
19 untíl what he sáid came to páss,
and the wórd of the Lórd proved him trúe.

20  Then the kíng sent órders and reléased him;
the rúler of the péoples set him frée.
21 He máde him máster of his hóuse
and rúler of áll his posséssions,
22 to instrúct his prínces from his héart,
and to téach his élders wísdom.

23 So Ísrael cáme into Égypt;
Jacob dwélt in the lánd of Hám.
24 He gáve his péople great íncrease;
he máde them strónger than their fóes,
25 whose héarts he turned to háte his péople,
and to déal decéitfully with his sérvants.

26 Thén he sent Móses his sérvant,
and Áaron whóm he had chósen.
27 They perfórmed God’s sígns amóng them,
and his wónders in the lánd of Hám.

28 He sent dárkness, and dárk was máde,
but they rebélled agáinst his wórds.
29 He túrned their wáters into blóod,
and cáused their físh to díe.

30  Their lánd was overrún by frógs,
éven to the hálls of their kíngs.
31 He spóke; there came swárms of flíes,
and gnáts covered áll the cóuntry.

32 He sent háilstones in pláce of the ráin,
and líghtning fláshing in their lánd.
33 He strúck their vínes and fíg trees;
he sháttered the trées through their cóuntry.

34 He spóke; the lócusts came fórth,
young lócusts, too mány to be cóunted.
35 They áte up every plánt in the lánd;
they áte up all the frúit of their fíelds.

36 He strúck all the fírstborn in their lánd,
the first frúit of áll their stréngth.
37 He led out Ísrael with sílver and góld.
In his tríbes were nóne who stúmbled.

38 Égypt rejóiced when they léft,
for dréad had fállen upón them.
39 He spréad a clóud as a scréen,
and fíre to illúmine the níght.

40  When they ásked he sént them quáils;
he fílled them with bréad from héaven.
41 He pierced the róck and wáter gushed fórth;
it flówed as a ríver in the désert.

42 For he remémbered his hóly wórd,
spóken to Ábraham his sérvant.
43 So he bróught out his péople with jóy,
his chósen ones with shóuts of rejóicing.

44 And he gáve them the lánds of the nátions.
Of other péoples they posséssed the tóil,
45 that thús they might kéep his précepts,
that thús they might obsérve his láws.

Alleluia!
