Psalm 104

1 Bléss the Lórd, O my sóul!
O Lord my Gód, how gréat you áre,
clóthed in májesty and hónor,
2 wrápped in líght as with a róbe!

You strétch out the héavens like a tént.
3 On the wáters you estáblish your dwélling.
You máke the clóuds your cháriot;
you ríde on the wíngs of the wínd.
4 You máke the wínds your méssengers,
fláme and fíre your sérvants.

5 You sét the éarth on its foundátion,
immóvable from áge to áge.
6 You wrápped it with the dépths like a clóak;
the wáters stood hígher than the móuntains.
7 At your thréat they tóok to flíght;
at the vóice of your thúnder they fléd.

8 The mountains róse, the válleys descénded,
to the pláce which yóu had appóinted them.
9 You set límits they míght not páss,
lest they retúrn to cóver the éarth.

10 You make spríngs gush fórth in the válleys;
they flów in betwéen the hílls.
11 They give drínk to all the béasts of the fíeld;
the wild ásses quénch their thírst.
12 There the bírds of héaven build their nésts;
from the bránches they síng their sóng.

13 From your dwélling you wáter the hílls;
by your wórks the éarth has its fíll.

14 You máke the grass grów for the cáttle
and plánts to sérve mankind’s néed.
That he may bríng forth bréad from the éarth
15 and wíne to chéer the héart;
óil, to máke faces shíne,
and bread to stréngthen the héart of mán.

16 The trées of the Lórd drink their fíll,
the cédars he plánted on Lébanon;
17 thére the bírds build their nésts;
on the tréetop the stórk has her hóme.
18 For the góats the lófty móuntains,
for the rábbits the rócks are a réfuge.

19 You made the móon to márk the mónths;
the sún knows the tíme for its sétting.
20  You spréad the dárkness, it is níght,
and all the béasts of the fórest creep fórth.
21 The young líons róar for their préy,
and séek their fóod from Gód.

22 At the rísing of the sún they gáther;
and they gó to lie dówn in their déns.
23 Mán goes fórth to his wórk,
to lábor till évening fálls.

24 How mány are your wórks, O Lórd!
In wísdom you have máde them áll.
The éarth is fúll of your créatures.

25 Vast and wíde is the spán of the séa,
with its créeping thíngs past cóunting,
líving things gréat and smáll.
26 The shíps are móving thére,
and Levíathan you máde to pláy with.

27 Áll of these lóok to yóu
to gíve them their fóod in due séason.
28 You gíve it, they gáther it úp;
you ópen wide your hánd, they are well fílled.

29 You híde your fáce, they are dismáyed;
you táke away their bréath, they díe,
retúrning to the dúst from which they cáme.
30  You sénd forth your spírit, and théy are creáted,
and you renéw the fáce of the éarth.

31 May the glóry of the Lórd last foréver!
May the Lórd rejóice in his wórks!
32 He lóoks on the éarth and it trémbles;
he tóuches the móuntains and they smóke.

33 I will síng to the Lórd all my lífe,
sing psálms to my Gód while I líve.
34 May my thóughts be pléasing to hím.
Í will rejóice in the Lórd.

35 Let sínners vánish from the éarth,
and the wícked exíst no móre.
Bléss the Lórd, O my sóul.

Alleluia!
