Psalm 68

2 Let Gód aríse; let his fóes be scáttered.
Let thóse who háte him flée from his présence.
3 As smoke is dríven awáy, so dríve them awáy;
like wáx that mélts befóre the fíre,
so the wícked shall pérish at the présence of Gód.

4 But the júst shall rejóice at the présence of Gód;
théy shall exúlt with glád rejóicing.
5 O síng to Gód; make músic to his náme.
Extól the Óne who rídes on the clóuds.
The Lórd is his náme; exúlt at his présence.

6 Father of órphans, defénder of wídows:
such is Gód in his hóly pláce.
7 God gives the désolate a hóme to dwéll in;
he leads the prísoners fórth into prospérity,
but rébels must dwéll in a parched lánd.

8 O Gód, when you went fórth before your péople,
when you marched óut acróss the désert,
9 the earth trémbled, heavens póured down ráin:
at the fáce of Gód, the God of Sínai,
at the fáce of Gód, the God of Ísrael.

10 You póured down, O Gód, a génerous ráin;
when your péople lánguished, you restóred their inhéritance.
11 It was thére that your flóck began to dwéll.
In your góodness, O Gód, you províded for the póor.

12 The Lórd annóunces the commánd;
a míghty thróng bears good tídings:
13 ``The kíngs and ármies are in héadlong flíght,
while yóu were at rést amóng the shéepfolds."

14 At hóme the women alréady share the spóil.
They are cóvered with sílver as the wíngs of a dóve,
its féathers brílliant with shíning góld.
15 When the Almíghty scatters kíngs on the móuntain,
it is like snów whítening Mount Zálmon.

16 You, móuntain of Báshan, are a míghty móuntain;
a mány-peaked móuntain, the móuntain of Báshan.
17 Why lóok with énvy, you mány-peaked móuntain,
at the móuntain where Gód has desíred to dwéll?
It is thére that the Lórd shall dwéll foréver.

18 The cháriots of Gód are thóusands upon thóusands.
The Lórd has cóme from Sínai to the hóly place.
19 You have ascénded on hígh; leading captívity cáptive
as tríbute recéiving prísoners, O Gód,
so that éven rébels may dwéll near the Lórd God.

20  Dáy after dáy, may the Lórd be blést.
He béars our búrdens; Gód is our sávior.
21 This Gód of óurs is a Gód who sáves.
The Lord our Lórd provídes an escápe from déath.
22 And Gód will smíte the héad of his fóes,
the hairy crówn of him who wálks abóut in his guílt.

23 The Lord sáid, ``I will bríng them báck from Báshan;
I will bríng them báck from the dépth of the séa.
24 Thén you will báthe your féet in their blóod,
and the tóngues of your dógs take their sháre of the fóe."

25 They sée your sólemn procéssion, O Gód,
the procéssion of my Gód, of my kíng, to the hóly place:
26 the síngers in the fórefront, the musícians coming lást;
betwéen them, máidens sóunding their tímbrels.

27 ``In the sácred assémbly, bléss God, the Lórd,
O yóu who are fróm the fóuntain of Ísrael."
28 There is Bénjamin, léast of the tríbes, at the héad;
Júdah’s prínces, a míghty thróng;
Zébulun’s prínces, Náphtali’s prínces.

29 Súmmon fórth your míght, O Gód;
your míght, O Gód, which you have shówn for us.
30  From your témple high in Jerúsalem,
kings will cóme to you brínging their tríbute.

31 Rebúke the wild béast that dwélls in the réeds,
the bánds of the míghty and rúlers of the péoples.
Scátter the péoples who delíght in wár.
32 Rich mérchants will máke their wáy from Égypt;
Ethiópia will strétch out her hánds to Gód.

33 You kíngdoms of the éarth, sing to Gód, praise the Lórd
34 who rídes on the héavens, the áncient héavens.
Behold, he thúnders his vóice, his míghty vóice.
35 Cóme, acknówledge the pówer of Gód.

His glóry is on Ísrael; his míght is in the skíes.
36 Áwesome is Gód in his hóly pláce.
Hé is Gód, the Gód of Ísrael.
He himsélf gives stréngth and pówer to his péople.
Blést be Gód!
