Psalm 37

1 Do not frét becáuse of the wícked;
do not énvy thóse who do évil,
2 for they wíther quíckly like gráss
and fáde like the gréen of the fíelds.

3 Trúst in the Lórd and do góod;
then you will dwéll in the lánd and safely pásture. 
4 Fínd your delíght in the Lórd,
who gránts your héart’s desíre.

5 Commít your wáy to the Lórd;
trúst in him, and hé will áct,
6 and make your úprightness shíne like the líght,
the jústice of your cáuse like the nóonday sún.

7 Be stíll before the Lórd and wait in pátience;
do not frét at the óne who próspers,
the óne who makes évil plóts.

8 Calm your ánger and forgét your ráge;
do not frét, it ónly leads to évil.
9 For thóse who do évil shall pérish.
But thóse who hópe in the Lórd,
théy shall inhérit the lánd.

10 A little lónger — and the wícked one is góne.
Lóok at his pláce: he is not thére.
11 But the húmble shall ówn the lánd
and delíght in fúllness of péace.

12 The wícked one plóts against the júst man
and gnáshes his téeth agáinst him;
13 but the Lórd láughs at the wícked,
for he sées that his dáy is at hánd.

14 The wícked draw the swórd, bend their bóws,
to sláughter the póor and néedy,
to sláy those whose wáys are úpright.
15 Their swórd shall píerce their own héarts,
and their bóws shall be bróken to píeces.

16 Better the féw posséssions of the júst,
than the abúndant wéalth of the wícked;
17 for the árms of the wícked shall be bróken,
and the Lórd will suppórt the júst.

18 The Lord takes nóte of the dáys of the blámeless;
their héritage will lást foréver.
19 They shall nót be put to sháme in evil dáys;
in time of fámine they shall háve their fíll.

20  But áll the wícked shall pérish;
the énemies of the Lórd shall be consúmed.
Théy are like the béauty of the méadows;
they shall vánish, they shall vánish like smóke.

21 The wicked bórrows and does nót repáy,
but the úpright is génerous and gíves.
22 Those blessed by hím shall inhérit the lánd,
but those cúrsed by hím shall be cut óff.

23 By the Lórd are the stéps made fírm
of óne in whose páth He delíghts.
24 Though he stúmble he shall néver fáll,
for the Lórd will hóld him by the hánd.

25 I was yóung and nów I am óld,
but I have néver seen the júst man forsáken
nor his chíldren bégging for bréad.
26 All the dáy he is génerous and lénds,
and his chíldren becóme a bléssing.

27 Then túrn away from évil and do góod,
and yóu may abíde foréver;
28 for indéed, the Lórd loves jústice,
and will néver forsáke his fáithful.

The unjúst shall be wíped out foréver,
and the descéndants of the wícked destróyed.
29 The júst shall inhérit the lánd;
thére they shall abíde foréver.

30  The móuth of the júst man utters wísdom,
and his tóngue tells fórth what is júst.
31 The láw of his Gód is in his héart;
his stéps shall be sáved from stúmbling.

32 The wícked man keeps wátch for the júst,
and séeks an occásion to destróy him.
33 The Lórd will not léave him in his pówer,
nor lét him be condémned when he is júdged.

34 Then wáit for the Lórd, keep to his wáy.
He will exált you to inhérit the lánd,
and you will sée the wícked destróyed.

35 I have séen the wícked one triúmphant,
tówering like a cédar of Lébanon.
36 I pássed by agáin; he was góne.
I séarched; he was nówhere to be fóund.

37 Mark the blámeless, obsérve the úpright; 
for the péaceful man a fúture lies in stóre,
38 but sínners shall áll be destróyed.
No fúture lies in stóre for the wícked.

39 But from the Lórd comes the salvátion of the júst,
their strónghold in tíme of distréss.
40  The Lord hélps them and réscues thém,
réscues and sáves them from the wícked:
becáuse they take réfuge in hím.
