Psalm 74

1 Why, O God, have you cast us off forever?
Why does your anger blaze at the sheep of your pasture?
2 Remember your flock which you claimed long ago,
the tribe you redeemed to be your own possession,
this mountain of Sion where you made your dwelling.

3 Turn your steps to these places that are utterly ruined!
The enemy has laid waste the whole of the holy place.
4 Your foes have made uproar in the midst of your assembly;
they have set up their emblems as tokens there.
5 They have wielded their axes on high,
as at the entrance to a grove of trees.

6 They have broken down all the carvings;
they have struck together with hatchet and pickax.
7 O God, they have set your holy place on fire;
they have razed and profaned the abode of your name.

8 They said in their hearts, ``We will utterly crush them;
we will burn every shrine of God in the land."
9 We do not see our emblems, nor is there a prophet;
we have no one to tell us how long it will last.

10 How long, O God, is the enemy to scoff?
Is the foe to insult your name forever?
11 Why, O Lord, do you hold back your hand?
Why do you keep your right hand hidden in your cloak?

12 Yet God is my king from time past,
who bestows salvation through all the land.
13 It was you who divided the sea by your might,
who shattered the heads of the monsters in the sea.

14 It was you who crushed Leviathan’s heads,
and gave him as food to the beasts of the desert.
15 It was you who opened up springs and torrents;
it was you who dried up ever-flowing rivers.

16 Yours is the day and yours is the night;
it was you who established the light and the sun.
17 It was you who fixed the bounds of the earth,
you who made both summer and winter.

18 Remember this, O Lord: the enemy scoffed!
A senseless people insulted your name!
19 Do not give the soul of your dove to the beasts,
nor forget the life of your poor ones forever.

20  Look to the covenant; each cave in the land
is a place where violence makes its home.
21 Do not let the oppressed be put to shame;
let the poor and the needy bless your name.

22 Arise, O God, and defend your cause!
Remember how the senseless revile you all the day.
23 Do not forget the clamor of your foes,
the unceasing uproar of those who defy you.
