

Psalm 71

1 In you, O Lord, I take refuge;
let me never be put to shame.
2 In your justice, rescue me, free me;
incline your ear to me and save me.

3 Be my rock, my constant refuge,
a mighty stronghold to save me,
for you are my rock, my stronghold.
4 My God, free me from the hand of the wicked,
from the grip of the unjust, of the oppressor.

5 It is you, O Lord, who are my hope,
my trust, O Lord, from my youth.
6 On you I have leaned from my birth;
from my mother’s womb, you have been my help.
At all times I give you praise.

7 My fate has filled many with awe,
but you are my mighty refuge.
8 My mouth is filled with your praise,
with your glory, all the day long.
9 Do not reject me now that I am old;
when my strength fails do not forsake me.

10 For my enemies are speaking about me;
those who watch me take counsel together,
11 saying: “God has forsaken him; follow him.
Seize him; there is no one to save him.”
12 O God, do not stay afar off;
O my God, make haste to help me!

13 Let them be put to shame and destroyed,
those who seek my life.
Let them be covered with shame and confusion,
those who seek to harm me.

14 But as for me, I will always hope,
and praise you more and more.
15 My mouth will tell of your justice,
and all the day long of your salvation,
though I can never tell it all.

16 I will come with praise of your might, O Lord;
I will call to mind your justice,
yours, O Lord, alone.
17 O God, you have taught me from my youth,
and I proclaim your wonders still.

18 Even till I am old and gray-headed,
do not forsake me, O God.
Let me tell of your mighty arm
to every coming generation;
19 your strength and your justice, O God,
reach to the highest heavens.
It is you who have worked such wonders.
O God, who is like you?

20  You have made me witness many troubles and evils,
but you will give me back my life.
You will raise me from the depths of the earth;
21 you will exalt me and console me again.

22 So I will give you thanks on the lyre
for your faithfulness, O my God.
To you will I sing with the harp,
to you, the Holy One of Israel.
23 When I sing to you, my lips shall shout for joy,
and my soul, which you have redeemed.

24 And all the day long my tongue
shall tell the tale of your justice,
for they are put to shame and disgraced,
those who seek to harm me.

Now and forever. Amen.
