Psalm 73

1 How good is God to Israel,
to those who are pure of heart!
2 As for me, I came close to stumbling;
my feet had almost slipped,
3 for I was filled with envy of the proud,
when I saw how the wicked prosper.

4 For them there are no pains;
their bodies are sound and sleek.
5 They do not share in people’s burdens;
they are not stricken like others.

6 So they wear their pride like a necklace;
they clothe themselves with violence.
7 With folds of fat, their eyes protrude.
With imagination their hearts overflow.

8 They scoff; they speak with malice.
From on high they threaten oppression.
9 They have set their mouths in the heavens,
and their tongues are roaming the earth.

10 So the people turn to them
and drink in all their words.
11 They say, “How can God know?
Does the Most High have any knowledge?”
12 Look at them, such are the wicked;
ever prosperous, they grow in wealth.

13 How useless to keep my heart pure,
and wash my hands in innocence,
14 when I was stricken all day long,
suffered punishment with each new morning.
15 Then I said, “If I should speak like that,
I should betray your children’s generation.”

16 I strove to fathom this problem,
too hard for my mind to understand,
17 until I entered the holy place of God,
and came to discern their end.

18 How slippery the paths on which you set them;
you make them fall to destruction.
19 How suddenly they come to their ruin,
swept away, destroyed by terrors.
20  Like a dream one wakes from, O Lord,
when you wake you dismiss them as phantoms.

21 And so when my heart grew embittered,
and I was pierced to the depths of my being,
22 I was stupid and did not understand;
I was like a beast in your sight.

23 As for me, I was always in your presence;
you were holding me by my right hand.
24 By your counsel you will guide me,
and then you will lead me to glory.

25 What else have I in heaven but you?
Apart from you, I want nothing on earth.
26 My body and my heart waste away;
God is the strength of my heart;
God is my portion forever.

27 Surely, those who are far from you perish;
you destroy all those who are unfaithful.
28 To be near God is my happiness;
I have my hope in the Lord God.
I will proclaim your works
at the gates of daughter Sion.

Now and forever. Amen.
