Psalm 73

1 How góod is Gód to Ísrael,
to thóse who are púre of héart!
2 As for mé, I came clóse to stúmbling;
my féet had álmost slípped,
3 for I was fílled with énvy of the próud,
when I sáw how the wícked prósper.

4 For thém there áre no páins;
their bódies are sóund and sléek.
5 They do not sháre in péople’s búrdens;
théy are not strícken like óthers.

6 So they wéar their príde like a nécklace;
they clóthe themsélves with víolence.
7 With fólds of fát, their éyes protrúde.
With imaginátion their héarts overflów.

8 They scóff; they spéak with málice.
From on hígh they thréaten oppréssion.
9 They have sét their móuths in the héavens,
and their tóngues are róaming the éarth.

10 So the péople túrn to thém
and drínk in áll their wórds.
11 They sáy, ``Hów can God knów?
Dóes the Most Hígh have any knówledge?"
12 Lóok at them, súch are the wícked;
ever prósperous, they grów in wéalth.

13 How úseless to kéep my heart púre,
and wásh my hánds in ínnocence,
14 when I was strícken áll day lóng,
suffered púnishment with éach new mórning.
15 Then I sáid, ``If I should spéak like thát,
I should betráy your chíldren’s generátion."

16 I stróve to fáthom this próblem,
too hárd for my mínd to understánd,
17 until I éntered the hóly place of Gód,
and cáme to discérn their énd.

18 How slíppery the páths on which you sét them;
you máke them fáll to destrúction.
19 How súddenly they cóme to their rúin,
swept awáy, destróyed by térrors.
20  Like a dréam one wákes from, O Lórd,
when you wáke you dismíss them as phántoms.

21 And só when my héart grew embíttered,
and I was píerced to the dépths of my béing,
22 I was stúpid and did nót understánd;
I was líke a béast in your síght.

23 As for mé, I was álways in your présence;
you were hólding mé by my right hánd.
24 By your cóunsel yóu will guíde me,
and thén you will léad me to glóry.

25 What élse have I in héaven but yóu?
Apart from yóu, I want nóthing on éarth.
26 My bódy and my héart waste awáy;
Gód is the stréngth of my héart;
Gód is my pórtion foréver.

27 Surely, thóse who are fár from you pérish;
you destróy all thóse who are unfáithful.
28 To bé near Gód is my háppiness;
I háve my hópe in the Lord Gód.
Í will procláim your wórks
at the gátes of dáughter Síon.
