Psalm 107

1 ``O give thánks to the Lórd for he is góod;
for his mércy endúres foréver."
2 Let the redéemed of the Lórd say thís,
those he redéemed from the hánd of the fóe,
3 and gáthered from fár-off lánds,
from éast and wést, north and sóuth.

4 They wándered in a bárren désert,
finding no wáy to a cíty they could dwéll in.
5 Húngry they wére and thírsty;
their sóul was fáinting withín them.

6 Then they críed to the Lórd in their néed,
and he réscued thém from their distréss,
7 and he guíded them alóng a straight páth,
to réach a cíty they could dwéll in.

8 Let them thánk the Lórd for his mércy,
his wónders for the chíldren of mén;
9 for he sátisfies the thírsty sóul,
and the húngry he fílls with good thíngs.

10 Some dwelt in dárkness and the shádow of déath,
prísoners in mísery and cháins,
11 having rebélled against the wórds of Gód,
and spúrned the plán of the Most Hígh.
12 He húmbled their héart with tóil.
They stúmbled; there was nó one to hélp.

13 Then they críed to the Lórd in their néed,
and he réscued thém from their distréss.
14 He léd them out of dárkness and the shádow of déath,
and bróke their cháins to píeces.

15 Let them thánk the Lórd for his mércy,
his wónders for the chíldren of mén;
16 for he búrsts the gátes of brónze,
and cúts through the íron bárs.

17 Some fell síck on accóunt of their síns,
and were afflícted on accóunt of their guílt.
18 They had a lóathing for évery fóod;
they drew néar to the gátes of déath.

19 Then they críed to the Lórd in their néed,
and he réscued thém from their distréss.
20  He sént forth his wórd to héal them,
and sáved their lífe from destrúction.

21 Let them thank the Lord for his mercy,
his wonders for the children of men.
22 Let them offer a sacrifice of thanks,
and tell of his deeds with rejoicing.

23 Some went down to the sea in ships,
to trade on the mighty waters.
24 These have seen the deeds of the Lord,
the wonders he does in the deep.

25 For he spoke and raised up the storm-wind,
tossing high the waves of the sea
26 that surged to heaven and dropped to the depths.
Their souls melted away in their distress.

27 They staggered and reeled like drunkards,
for all their skill was gone.
28 Then they cried to the Lord in their need,
and he rescued them from their distress.

29 He stilled the storm to a whisper,
and the waves of the sea were hushed.
30  They rejoiced because of the calm,
and he led them to the haven they desired.

31 Let them thank the Lord for his mercy,
his wonders for the children of men.
32 Let them exalt him in the assembly of the people,
and praise him in the meeting of the elders.

33 He changes rivers into desert,
springs of water into thirsty ground,
34 fruitful land into a salty waste,
for the wickedness of those who live there.

35 He changes desert into pools of water,
thirsty ground into springs of water.
36 There he settles the hungry,
and they establish a city to dwell in.

37 They sow fields and plant their vines,
which yield an abundant harvest.
38 He blesses them; they grow in numbers.
He does not let their cattle decrease.

40  He pours contempt upon princes,
makes them wander in trackless wastes.
39 They are diminished and brought low
by oppression, evil, and sorrow.

41 But he raises the needy from distress;
makes families numerous as a flock.
42 The upright see it and rejoice,
while all the wicked close their mouths.

43 Should not one who is wise recall these things,
and understand the merciful deeds of the Lord?
