Psalm 78 A

1 Give ear, my people, to my teaching;
incline your ear to the words of my mouth.
2 I will open my mouth in a parable
and utter hidden lessons of the past.

3 The things we have heard and understood,
the things our fathers have told us,
4 these we will not hide from their children
but will tell them to the next generation:
the glories of the Lord and his might,
and the marvelous deeds he has done.

5 He established a decree in Jacob;
in Israel he set up a law.
To our fathers he gave a command
to make it known to their children,
6 that the next generation might know it,
the children yet to be born.

They should arise and declare it to their children, 
7 that they should set their hope in God,
and never forget God’s deeds,
but keep every one of his commands,

8 So that they might not be like their fathers,
a defiant and rebellious generation,
a generation whose heart was fickle,
whose spirit was not faithful to God.

9 The sons of Ephraim, armed with the bow,
turned back in the day of battle.
10 They failed to keep God’s covenant,
refused to walk according to his law.

11 They forgot the things he had done,
the wondrous works he had shown them.
12 He did wonders in the sight of their fathers,
in Egypt, in the plains of Zoan.

13 He divided the sea and led them through,
and made the waters stand up like a wall.
14 By day he led them with a cloud;
throughout the night, with a light of fire.

15 He split the rocks in the desert.
He gave them plentiful drink, as from the deep.
16 He made streams flow out from the rock,
and made waters run down like rivers.

17 Yet still they sinned against him,
rebelled against the Most High in the desert.
18 In their heart they put God to the test
by demanding the food they craved.

19 They spoke against God and said:
“Can God spread a table in the wilderness?
20  See, he struck the rock:
water gushed forth and swept down in torrents.
But can he also give us bread?
Can he provide meat for his people?”

21 When he heard this, the Lord was angry.
A fire was kindled against Jacob;
his anger rose against Israel.
22 For they had no faith in God,
and did not trust his saving power.

23 Yet he commanded the clouds above,
and opened the gates of heaven.
24 He rained down manna to eat,
and gave them bread from heaven.

25 Man ate the bread of angels.
He sent them abundance of food;
26 the east wind he stirred up in the heavens,
the south wind he directed by his might.

27 He rained flesh upon them like dust,
winged fowl like the sands of the sea.
28 He let it fall in the midst of their camp,
and all around their tents.

29 So they ate and had their fill,
what they craved, he gave them.

30  But before they had sated their hunger,
while the food was still in their mouths,
31 God’s anger rose against them.
He slew the strongest among them,
struck down the flower of Israel.

32 Despite all this, they kept on sinning;
they failed to believe in his wonders.
33 So he ended their days like a breath,
and their years in sudden terror.

34 When he slew them, then they sought him,
repented and earnestly sought God. 
35 They would remember that God was their rock,
God the Most High their redeemer.

36 Yet they deceived him with their mouths;
they lied to him with their tongues.
37 For their hearts were not steadfast toward him;
they were not faithful to his covenant.

38 Yet he who is full of compassion
forgave them their sin and spared them.
So often he held back his anger,
and did not stir up all his rage.

39 He remembered they were only flesh,
a breath that passes, never to return.
