Psalm 44

2 We héard with our own éars, O Gód;
our fórebears have decláred to ús
the thíngs you díd in their dáys,
you yoursélf, in dáys long agó.

3 With your own hánd you dróve out the nátions,
but thém you plánted;
you bróught afflíction on the péoples;
but thém you set frée.

4 No swórd of their ówn won the lánd;
no árm of their ówn brought them víctory.
It was yóur right hánd and your árm,
and the líght of your fáce, for you lóved them.

5 Yóu are my kíng, O Gód;
you cómmand the víctories for Jácob.
6 Through yóu we béat down our fóes;
in your náme we trámpled our aggréssors.

7 For it was nót in my bów that I trústed,
nor yét was I sáved by my swórd:
8 it was yóu who sáved us from our fóes;
those who háte us, you pút to sháme.
9 All day lóng our bóast was in Gód,
and we will práise your náme foréver.

10 Yet nów you have rejécted us, disgráced us;
you no lónger go fórth with our ármies.
11 You máke us retréat from the fóe;
those who háte us plúnder us at wíll.

12 You máke us like shéep for the sláughter,
and scátter us amóng the nátions.
13 You séll your own péople for nóthing,
and máke no prófit by the sále.

14 You máke us the táunt of our néighbors,
the móckery and scórn of those aróund us.
15 Among the nátions you máke us a býword;
among the péoples they sháke their héads.

16 All day lóng my disgráce is befóre me;
my fáce is cóvered with sháme
17 at the vóice of the táunter, the scóffer,
at the síght of the fóe and avénger.

18 This beféll us though wé had not forgótten you;
wé were not fálse to your cóvenant.
19 We had nót withdráwn our héarts;
our féet had not stráyed from your páth.
20  Yet you have crúshed us in a háunt of jáckals,
and cóvered us with the shádow of déath.

21 Had we forgótten the náme of our Gód,
or strétched out our hánds to a strange gód,
22 would not Gód have fóund this óut,
hé who knows the sécrets of the héart?
23 It is for yóu we are sláin all day lóng,
and are cóunted as shéep for the sláughter.

24 Awáke, O Lord! Whý do you sléep?
Aríse! Do not rejéct us foréver.
25 Whý do you híde your fáce,
and forgét our oppréssion and mísery?

26 For our sóul is brought lów to the dúst;
our bódy lies próstrate on the éarth.
27 Stand úp and cóme to our hélp!
Redéem us with your mérciful lóve!
