Psalm 102

2 O Lórd, héar my práyer,
and let my crý come to yóu.
3 Do not híde your fáce from mé
in the dáy of my distréss.

Túrn your éar toward mé;
on the dáy when I cáll,
spéedily ánswer me.

4 For my dáys are vánishing like smóke;
my bónes burn awáy like a fúrnace.
5 My heart is wíthered and dried úp like the gráss.
I forgét to éat my bréad.
6 Becáuse of the sóund of my gróaning,
my skín clíngs to my bónes.

7 I have becóme like a vúlture in the désert,
like an ówl amóng the rúins.
8 I líe awáke and I móan,
like a bírd alóne on a róof.
9 All day lóng my fóes revíle me;
those who deríde me use my náme as a cúrse.

10 I have éaten áshes like bréad,
and míngled téars with my drínk.
11 Becáuse of your ánger and fúry,
you have lífted me úp and thrown me dówn.
12 My dáys are like a fáding shádow,
and I wíther awáy like the gráss.

13 But you, O Lórd, are enthróned foréver,
and your renówn is from áge to áge.

14 You will aríse and take píty on Síon,
for thís is the tíme to have mércy;
yes, the tíme appóinted has cóme.
15 Behold, your sérvants lóve her very stónes,
are móved to píty for her dúst.

16 The nátions shall féar the náme of the Lórd,
and áll the earth’s kíngs your glóry.
17 When the Lórd shall buíld up Síon,
he will appéar in áll his glóry.
18 Then he will túrn to the práyers of the hélpless;
he will nót despíse their práyers.

19 Let this be wrítten for áges to cóme,
that a péople yet unbórn may praise the Lórd;
20  The Lord looked dówn from his hóly place on hígh,
looked dówn from héaven to the éarth,
21 to héar the gróans of the prísoners,
and frée those condémned to díe.

22 May the náme of the Lórd be procláimed in Síon,
and his práise in Jerúsalem,
23 when péoples and kíngdoms are gáthered as óne
to óffer their wórship to the Lórd.

24 He has bróken my stréngth in midcóurse;
he has shórtened my dáys.
25 I say: ``My Gód, do not táke me awáy
before hálf of my dáys are compléte,
you, whose dáys last from áge to áge.

26 Long agó you fóunded the éarth,
and the héavens are the wórk of your hánds.
27 They will pérish but yóu will remáin.
They will áll wear óut like a gárment.
You will chánge them like clóthes, and they chánge.
28 But yóu are the sáme, and your yéars do not énd."

29 The chíldren of your sérvants shall dwéll untróubled,
and their descéndants estáblished befóre you.
