Psalm 109

1 O Gód whom I práise, do not be sílent,
2 for the móuths of decéit and wíckedness
are ópened agáinst me.

3 They spéak to me with lýing tóngues;
they besét me with wórds of háte,
and attáck me without cáuse.

4 In retúrn for my lóve, they accúse me,
while Í am at práyer.
5 They repáy me évil for góod,
hátred for lóve.

* * *

6 Appóint someone wícked over hím;
let an accúser stánd at his ríght.
7 When he is júdged, let him cóme out condémned;
let his práyer be consídered as sín.

8 Let the dáys of his lífe be féw;
let anóther assúme his óffice.
9 Let his chíldren be fátherless órphans,
and his wífe becóme a wídow.

10 Let his chíldren be wánderers and béggars,
dríven from the rúins of their hóme.
11 Let the créditor séize all his góods;
let strángers take the frúit of his wórk.

12 Let nó one shów him any mércy,
nor píty his fátherless chíldren.
13 Let his postérity be destróyed,
in a generátion his náme blotted óut.

14 Let his fáther’s guílt be remémbered to the Lórd,
his móther’s sín be retáined.
15 Let it álways stánd before the Lórd,
that their mémory be cut óff from the éarth.

16 For hé did not thínk of showing mércy,
but pursúed the póor and the néedy,
hóunding to déath the brokenhéarted.
17 He loved cúrsing; let cúrses fall on hím.
He scorned bléssing; let bléssing pass him bý.

18 He pút on cúrsing like his cóat:
let it sínk into his bódy like wáter;
let it sínk like óil into his bónes.
19 Let it bé like the clóthes that cóver him,
like a bélt he wéars all the tíme.

20  Let the Lórd thus repáy my accúsers,
all thóse who speak évil agáinst me.
21 But yóu, O Lórd, my Lórd,
do with mé as befíts your náme.
How good your mérciful lóve! Delíver me.

22 For Í am póor and néedy,
and my héart is píerced withín me.
23 I fáde like an évening shádow;
I am sháken óff like a lócust.

24 My knées are wéak from fásting;
my bódy is thín and gáunt.
25 I have becóme an óbject of scórn;
when they sée me they sháke their héads.

26 Hélp me, Lórd my Gód;
sáve me with your mérciful lóve.
27 Let them knów that thís is your hánd,
that thís is your dóing, O Lórd.

28 They may cúrse, but yóu will bléss.
Let my attáckers be pút to sháme,
but lét your sérvant rejóice.
29 Let my accúsers be clóthed with dishónor,
cóvered with sháme as with a clóak.

30  Loud thánks to the Lórd are on my líps.
I will práise him in the mídst of the thróng,
31 for he stánds at the right hánd of the póor,
to sáve his soul from thóse who condémn him.
