Psalm 69

2 Sáve me, O Gód, for the wáters
have rísen to my néck.
3 I have súnk into the múd of the déep,
where there ís no fóothold.
I have éntered the wáters of the déep,
where the flóod overwhélms me.

4 I am wéaried with crýing alóud;
my thróat is párched.
My éyes are wásted awáy
with wáiting for my Gód.

5 More númerous than the háirs on my héad
are those who háte me without cáuse.
Mány are thóse who attáck me,
énemies with líes.
Whát I have néver stólen,
hów can I restóre?

6 O Gód, you knów my fólly;
from you my síns are not hídden.
7 May those who hópe in you nót be shámed
because of mé, O Lord of hósts;
may those who séek you nót be put to sháme
because of mé, O God of Ísrael.

8 It is for yóu that I súffer táunts,
that sháme has cóvered my fáce.
9 To my own kín I have becóme an óutcast,
a stránger to the chíldren of my móther.
10 Zéal for your hóuse consúmes me,
and táunts against yóu fall on mé.

11 When my sóul wept bítterly in fásting,
they máde it a táunt agáinst me.
12 When I máde my clóthing sáckcloth,
I becáme a repróach to thém, 
13 the góssip of thóse at the gátes,
the théme of drúnkards’ sóngs.

14 But I práy to yóu, O Lórd,
for a tíme of your fávor.
In your great mércy, ánswer me, O Gód,
with your salvátion that néver fáils.

15 Réscue me from sínking in the múd;
from those who háte me, delíver me.
Sáve me from the wáters of the déep,
16 lest the wáves overwhélm me.
Let nót the déep engúlf me,
nor the pít close its móuth on me.

17 Lord, ánswer, for your mércy is kínd;
in your gréat compássion, turn towards mé.
18 Do not híde your fáce from your sérvant;
answer me quíckly, for Í am in distréss.
19 Come clóse to my sóul and redéem me;
ránsom me becáuse of my fóes.

20  You know my táunts, my sháme, my dishónor;
my oppréssors are áll befóre you.
21 Táunts have bróken my héart;
hére I ám in ánguish.
I looked for sólace, but thére was nóne;
for consólers—not óne could I fínd.

22 For fóod they gáve me gáll;
in my thírst they gave me vínegar to drínk.
23 Let their táble be a snáre to thém,
and for their fríends, a tráp.
24 Let their éyes grow dím and blínd;
let their límbs contínually trémble.

25 Pour óut your ánger upón them;
let your búrning fúry overtáke them.
26 Lét their cámp be left désolate;
let nó one dwéll in their ténts:
27 for they pérsecute óne whom you strúck;
they incréase the pain of óne whom you wóunded.

28 Chárge them with guílt upon guílt;
let them háve no sháre in your jústice.
29 Blot them óut from the bóok of the líving;
do not enróll them amóng the júst.
30  As for mé in my póverty and páin,
let your salvátion, O Gód, raise me úp.

31 Then I will práise God’s náme with a sóng;
I will glórify hím with thanksgíving:
32 a gíft pleasing Gód more than óxen,
more than a búll with hórns and hóofs.

33 The póor when they sée it will be glád,
and Gód-seeking héarts will revíve;
34 for the Lórd lístens to the néedy,
and does not spúrn his ówn in their cháins.
35 Let the héavens and the éarth give him práise,
the seas and éverything that móves in thém.

36 For Gód will bring salvátion to Síon,
and rebuíld the cíties of Júdah,
and théy shall dwéll there in posséssion.
37 The chíldren of his sérvants shall inhérit it;
those who lóve his náme shall dwéll there.
