Psalm 22

2 My God, my Gód, whý have you forsáken me?
Why are you fár from sáving me,
so fár from my wórds of ánguish?
3 O my Gód, I call by dáy and you dó not ánswer;
I cáll by níght and I fínd no repriéve.

4 Yet yóu, O Gód, are hóly,
enthróned on the práises of Ísrael.
5 In you our fórebears pút their trúst;
they trústed and you sét them frée.
6 When they críed to yóu, they escáped;
in you they trústed and were nót put to sháme.

7 But Í am a wórm and no mán,
scorned by éveryone, despísed by the péople.
8 Áll who sée me deríde me;
they curl their líps, they tóss their héads:
9 ``He trústed in the Lórd, let him sáve him;
let him reléase him, for in hím he delíghts."

10 Yes, it was yóu who tóok me from the wómb,
entrústed me to my móther’s bréast.
11 To yóu I was commítted from bírth;
from my móther’s womb, yóu have been my Gód.
12 Stáy not fár from mé;
trouble is néar, and there is nó one to hélp.

13 Mány búlls have surróunded me,
fierce búlls of Báshan close me ín.
14 Agáinst me they ópen wide their móuths,
like a líon, rénding and róaring.

15 Like wáter Í am poured óut,
disjóinted are áll my bónes.
My héart has becóme like wáx,
it is mélted withín my bréast.

16 Párched as burnt cláy is my thróat,
my tóngue cléaves to my jáws.
You láy me in the dúst of déath.
17 For dógs have surróunded mé;
a bánd of the wícked beséts me.
They tear hóles in my hánds and my féet;

18 I can cóunt every óne of my bónes.
They stáre at mé and glóat.
19 They divíde my clóthing amóng them,
théy cast lóts for my róbe.

20  But you, O Lórd, do not stáy afar óff;
my stréngth, make háste to hélp me!
21 Réscue my sóul from the swórd,
my lífe from the gríp of the dóg.
22 Save my lífe from the jáws of the líon,
my poor sóul from the hórns of wild búlls.

23 I will téll of your náme to my kín,
and práise you in the mídst of the assémbly;
24 ``Yóu who fear the Lórd, give him práise;
all descéndants of Jácob, give him glóry;
revére him, all you descéndants of Ísrael.

25 For hé has néver despísed
nor scórned the póverty of the póor.
From hím he has not hídden his fáce,
but he héard him whenéver he críed."

26 Yóu are my práise in the gréat assémbly.
My vóws I will páy before thóse who féar him.
27 The póor shall éat and shall háve their fíll.
They shall práise the Lórd, thóse who séek him.
May their héarts live ón foréver and éver!

28 All the éarth shall remémber and retúrn to the Lórd,
all fámilies of the nátions wórship befóre him,
29 for the kíngdom is the Lórd’s, he is rúler of the nátions.
30  They shall wórship him, áll the míghty of the éarth;
befóre him shall bów all who go dówn to the dúst.

31 And my sóul shall líve for him, my descéndants sérve him.
They shall téll of the Lórd to generátions yet to cóme,
32 decláre his saving jústice to péoples yet unbórn:
``Thése are the thíngs the Lórd has dóne."
