Psalm 18

1 I lóve you, Lórd, my stréngth;
3 O Lord, my róck, my fórtress, my sávior;
my Gód, my róck where I take réfuge;
my shíeld, my saving stréngth, my strónghold.
4 I cry óut, “Práised be the Lórd!”
and sée, I am sáved from my fóes.

5 The wáves of déath rose abóut me;
the tórrents of destrúction assáiled me;
6 the snáres of the gráve surróunded me;
the tráps of déath confrónted me.

7 In my ánguish I cálled to the Lórd;
I críed to my Gód for hélp.
From his témple he héard my vóice;
my crý to hím reached his éars.

8 The éarth then réeled and rócked;
the móuntains were sháken to their báse;
they qúaked at his térrible ánger.

9 Smóke came fórth from his nóstrils,
and scórching fíre from his móuth;
from hím were kíndled live cóals.

10 He bént the héavens and came dówn,
a black clóud was únder his féet.
11 On a chérub, he róde and he fléw;
he sóared on the wíngs of the wínd.

12 He máde the dárkness his cóvering,
the dark wáters of the clóuds, his tént.
13 A bríghtness shóne out befóre him,
with háilstones and fláshes of fíre.

14 The Lórd then thúndered in the héavens;
the Most Hígh let his vóice be héard,
with háil and cóals of fíre.
15 He shot his árrows, scáttered the fóe,
flashed his líghtnings, and pút them to flíght.

16 The béd of the ócean was revéaled;
the foundátions of the wórld were laid báre
at yóur rebúke, O Lórd,
at the blást of the bréath of your nóstrils.

17 From on hígh he reached dówn and séized me;
he drew me fórth from the míghty wáters.
18 He sáved me from my pówerful fóe,
from my énemies, whose stréngth I could not mátch.

19 They assáiled me in the dáy of my misfórtune,
but the Lórd was my stróng suppórt.
20 He brought me óut to a pláce of fréedom;
he sáved me becáuse he lóved me.

21 The Lord rewárded me becáuse I was júst,
repáid me, for my hánds were cléan,
22 for I have képt the wáys of the Lórd,
and have not fállen awáy from my Gód.

23 For his júdgments are áll befóre me;
his commánds I have nót cast asíde.
24 Í have been blámeless befóre him;
I have képt mysélf from gúilt.
25 The Lord repáid me becáuse I was júst,
and my hánds were cléan in his éyes.

26 With the fáithful you shów yourself fáithful;
with the blámeless you shów yourself blámeless.
27 With the sincére you shów yourself sincére,
but the cúnning you outdó in shréwdness;
28 for you sáve a lówly péople,
but bring lów the éyes that are próud.

29 It is yóu who give líght to my lámp;
the Lórd my God líghtens my dárkness.
30 With yóu I can bréak through a bárrier,
with my Gód I can scále a wáll.

31 As for Gód, his wáy is blámeless;
the wórd of the Lórd is púre.
Hé indéed is the shíeld
of áll who trúst in hím.

32 For whó is God bút the Lórd?
Who ís a róck but our Gód?
33 It is Gód who gírds me with stréngth,
and kéeps my páth free of bláme.

34 My féet he makes swíft as the déer’s;
he has máde me stand fírm on the héights.
35 He has tráined my hánds for báttle,
and my árms to bénd the bronze bów.

36 You gáve me your sáving shíeld;
with your ríght hand, you gáve me suppórt;
you bent dówn to máke me gréat.
37 You léngthened my stéps benéath me;
and my féet have néver slípped.

38 I pursúed and overtóok my fóes,
néver turning báck till they were sláin.
39 I strúck them so they cóuld not ríse;
they féll benéath my féet.

40 You gírded me with stréngth for báttle;
you made my énemies fáll benéath me.
41 You máde my fóes take flíght;
those who háted me Í destróyed.

42 They cried óut, but there was nó one to sáve them,
cried to the Lórd, but he díd not ánswer.
43 I crúshed them fine as dúst before the wínd,
trod them dówn like dírt in the stréets.

44 From the féuds of the péople you delívered me,
and pút me at the héad of the nátions.
Péople unknówn to me sérved me;
45 when they héard of me, théy obéyed me.

Foreign nátions cáme to me crínging;
46 foreign nátions fáded awáy.
Trémbling, they came fórth from their stróngholds.

47 The Lord líves, and blést be my Róck!
May the Gód of my salvátion be exálted,
48 the Gód who gíves me redréss
and subdúes the péoples únder me.

49 You sáved me from my fúrious fóes;
you sét me abóve my assáilants;
you sáved me from the víolent mán.
50 So I will práise you, Lórd, among the nátions;
to your náme will I síng a psálm.

51 The Lord gíves great víctories to his kíng,
and shows mérciful lóve for his anóinted,
for Dávid and his séed foréver.
