MAY 31
THE VISITATION OF THE BLESSED VIRGIN MARY
Feast
From the common of The Blessed Virgin Mary, p.     Except:

PRAYER:
Almighty ever-living God,
who, while the Blessed Virgin Mary was carrying your Son in her womb,
inspired her to visit Elizabeth,
grant us, we pray,
that, faithful to the promptings of the Spirit,
we may magnify your greatness
with the Virgin Mary at all times.
Through our Lord Jesus Christ, your Son,
who lives and reigns with you in the unity of the Holy Spirit,
one God, for ever and ever.

LAUDS

INVITATORY
Let us sing to the Lord
as we celebrate the Visitation of the Blessed Virgin Mary.

PSALMODY: OT 3

READING: Joel 2:27, 3:1 You shall know that I am in the midst of Israel,
and that I, the Lord, am your God and there is none else. And my
people shall never again be put to shame. And it shall come to pass
afterward, that I will pour out my spirit on all flesh; your sons and
your daughters shall prophesy.

BENEDICTUS: When Elizabeth heard Mary’s greeting, she cried out
and said: Who am I that the mother of my Lord should come to me,
alleluia.

PRAYER:
Eternal Father, you inspired the Virgin Mary, mother of your
Son, to visit Elizabeth and assist her in her need. Keep us open to the
working of your Spirit, and with Mary may we praise you for ever.
We ask this…

SEXT

READING: Wis 7:27-28 Though wisdom is but one, she can do all
things, and while remaining in herself, she renews all things; in
every generation she passes into holy souls and makes them friends
of God, and prophets; for God loves nothing so much as the man
who lives with wisdom.

RESP
Blessed is the womb of the Virgin Mary, alleluia.
- Who bore the Son of the eternal Father, alleluia.

VESPERS

READING: 1 Pet 5:5-7 Clothe yourselves, all of you, with humility
toward one another, for “God opposes the proud, but gives grace to
the humble.” Humble yourselves therefore under the mighty hand
of God, that in due time he may exalt you. Cast all your anxieties
on him, for he cares about you.

MAGNIFICAT: All generations will call me blessed; the Lord has looked
with favor on his lowly servant (alleluia).


