APRIL 25
ST. MARK
Evangelist
Feast
From the common of apostles during the Easter Season p.     except:

PRAYER:
O God, who raised up Saint Mark, your Evangelist,
and endowed him with the grace to preach the Gospel,
grant, we pray,that we may so profit from his teaching
as to follow faithfully in the footsteps of Christ.
Who lives and reigns with you in the unity of the Holy Spirit,
one God, for ever and ever.

LAUDS

READING: 1Cor 15:1-4 I would remind you, brethren, in what terms
I preached to you the gospel, which you received, in which you
stand, by which you are saved, if you hold it fast-unless you
believed in vain. For I delivered to you as of fi rst importance what
I also received, that Christ died for our sins in accordance with the
scriptures, that he was buried, that he was raised on the third day
in accordance with the scriptures.

BENEDICTUS: Th rough the grace of Jesus Christ, preachers and
teachers were sent out to be ministers of the faith for all who believe,
alleluia.

SEXT

PSALMODY: and ANTIPHONS of the day of the week

READING: 1 Th ess 2:2-4 We had courage in our God to declare to you
the gospel of God in the face of great opposition. For our appeal
does not spring from error or uncleanness, nor is it made with
guile; but just as we have been approved by God to be entrusted
with the gospel, so we speak, not to please men, but to please God
who tests our hearts.

RESP
The apostles held fast to Christ’s message, alleluia.
-They kept the precepts he gave them, alleluia.

VESPERS

READING: Col 1:3-6 We always thank God, the Father of our Lord
Jesus Christ, when we pray for you, because we have heard of your
faith in Christ Jesus and of the love which you have for all the
saints, because of the hope laid up for you in heaven. Of this you
have heard before in the word of the truth, the gospel which has
come to you, as indeed in the whole world it is bearing fruit and
growing.

MAGNIFICAT: Th e word of the Lord shall endure forever; this is the
message which has been proclaimed, alleluia.

