Advent Season
Invitatory:
-Come, let us worship the Lord, the King who is to come.
-The Lord is close at hand; come, let us worship him.

Hymn I
Say to those whose hearts are troubled
Take courage, you need no longer fear.
See, it is your God who comes to save you,
He wants to gather his scattered children.

He will strengthen weary hand,
And steady trembling knees,
The eyes of the blind will see the light,
The tongue of the dumb will sing for joy.

The scorched earth will become a pool of water,
The parched land will be changed into a spring.
A level road will be marked there,
It will be called: the way of the Lord.

Glory to you, All-Powerful Father,
Glory to you, Christ our Savior,
Glory to you, Spirit of Truth,
Now and forever more. Amen.

HymnII
Conditor alme siderum,
Aeterna lux credentium,
Christe, redemptor omnium,
Exaudi preces supplicum.

Qui condolens interitu
Mortis perire saeculum,
Salvasti mundum languidum,
Donans reis remedium.

Vergente mundi vespere,
Uti sponsus de thalamo,
Egressus honestissima
Virginis matris clausula.

Cuius forti potentiae
Genu curvantur omnia:
Caelestia, terrestria
Nutu fatentur subdita.

Te, Sancte, fide quaesumus,
Venture iudex saeculi,
Conserva nos in tempore
Hostis a telo perfidi.

Sit, Christe, rex piisime,
Tibi Patrique gloria
Cum Spiritu Paraclito,
In sempiterna saecula. Amen.

Sundays of Advent
and December 17th and 18th

First Vespers (and December 17th)
Hymn p.?
Psalmody
1st week    week I
2nd week    week II
3rd week    week III
4th week    week IV

Reading 1 Th 5:23-24  May the God of peace himself make you perfectly holy and may you entirely, spirit, soul, and body, be preserved blameless for the coming of our Lord Jesus Christ.i 24The one who calls you is faithful, and he will also accomplish it.

Magnificat (until December 17th)
1. See the Lord coming from afar; his splendor fills the earth.
2. Come to us, Lord and may your presence be our peace; with hearts made perfect we shall rejoice in your friendship forever.
3. There was no god before me and after me there will be none; every knee shall bend in worship, and every tongue shall praise me.
(December 17th)
   O, Wisdom, O holy Word of God, you govern all creation with your strong yet tender care. Come and show your peaole the way to salvation.
(December 18th)
   O, Sacred Lord of ancient Israel, who showed yourself to Moses in the burning bush, who gave him the holy law on Mount Sinai: come, stretch out your mighty hand to set us free.

Prayers
Week 1   Grant your faithful, we pray, almighty God, the resolve to run forth to meet your Christ with righteous deeds at his coming, so that, gathered at his right hand, they may be worthy to possess the heavenly Kingdom. Through our Lord Jesus Christ, your Son, who lives and reigns with you in the unity of the Holy Spirit, one God, for ever and ever.
Week 2   Almighty and merciful God, may no earthly undertaking hinder those who set out in haste to meet your Son, but may our learning of heavenly wisdom gain us admittance to his company. Who lives and reigns with you in the unity of the Holy Spirit, one God, for ever and ever.
Week 3   O God, who see how your people faithfully await the feast of the Lord's Nativity, enable us, we pray, to attain the joys of so great a salvation and to celebrate them always with solemn worship and glad rejoicing. Through our Lord Jesus Christ, your Son, who lives and reigns with you in the unity of the Holy Spirit, one God, for ever and ever.
Week 4   Pour forth, we beseech you, O Lord, your grace into our hearts, that we, to whom the Incarnation of Christ your Son was made known by the message of an Angel, may by his Passion and Cross be brought to the glory of his Resurrection. Who lives and reigns with you in the unity of the Holy Spirit, one God, for ever and ever.
December 17th  O God, Creator and Redeemer of human nature, who willed that your Word should take flesh in an ever-virgin womb, look with favor on our prayers, that your Only Begotten Son, having taken to himself our humanity, may be pleased to grant us a share in his divinity. Who lives and reigns with you in the unity of the Holy Spirit, one God, for ever and ever.

Vigils (and December 17th)
Psalmody
OT 25 - OT 26 - OT 28      

Lauds (and December 18th)
Reading Rom 13:11-12  It is the hour now for you to awake from sleep. For our salvation is nearer now than when we first believed; the night is advanced, the day is at hand. Let us then throw off the works of darkness and put on the armor of light.

Benedictus (until December 17th)
1. The Holy Spirit will come upon you, Mary; you have no need to be afraid. You will carry in your womb the Son of God, alleluia.
2. I am sending my angel before me to prepare the way for my coming.
3. When John, in prison, heard of the works of Christ, he sent two of his disciples with this question: Are you the one whose coming was foretold, or should we look for another?
(December 17th)
Believe me, the kingdom of God is at hand; I tell you solemnly, your Savior will not delay his coming.
(December 18th)
Let everything within you watch and wait, for the Lord our God draws near.

Prayer on December 18th Grant, we pray, almight God, that we, who are weighed down from of old by slavery beneath the yoke of sin, may be set free by the newness of the long-awaited Nativity of your Only Begotten Son. Who lives and reigns with you in the unity of the Holy Spirit, one God, for ever and ever.

Sext (and December 28th)
Reading 1 Thess 3:12-13 May the Lord make you increase and abound in love for one another and for all, just as we have for you, so as to strengthen your hearts, to be blameless in holiness before our God and Father at the coming of our Lord Jesus with all his holy ones. Amen.
Remember us, Lord, because of the love you have for your people.
- Come and bring us your salvation.

Second Vespers
Hymn p.
Reading Ph 4:4-5  Rejoice in the Lord always. I shall say it again: rejoice! Your kindness should be known to all. The Lord is near.

Magnificat (until December 17th)
1. Do not be afraid, Mary you have found favor with God; you will conceive and give birth to a Son, alleluia.
2. Blessed are you, O Virgin Mary, for your great faith ; all that the Lord promised you will come to pass through you, alleluia.
3. Are you the one whose coming was foretold, or should we look for another? Tell John what you see: the blind have their sight resotred, the dead are raised to life, and the poor have the good news preached to them, alleluia.
(December 18th)
O sacred Lord of ancient Israel, who showed yourself to Moses in the burning bush, who have him the holy law on Mount Sinai: come, stretch out your mighty hand to set us free.

Mondays
and December 19th
Lauds
Reading Is 2:3b “Come, let us go up to the LORD’s mountain, to the house of the God of Jacob, that he may instruct us in his ways, and we may walk in his paths.” For from Zion shall go forth instruction, and the word of the LORD from Jerusalem.
Benedictus (December 19th)
Like the sun in the morning sky, the Savoir of the world will dawn; like rain on the meadows he will descend to rest in the womb of the Virgin, alleluia.

Prayers
Week 1 Keep us alert, we pray, O Lord our God, as we await the advent of Christ your Son, so that, when he comes and knocks, he may find us watchful in prayer and exultant in his praise. Who lives and reigns with you in the unity of the Holy Spirit, one God, for ever and ever.
Week 2 May our prayer of petition rise before you, we pray, O Lord, that, with purity unblemished, we, your servants, may come, as we desire, to celebrate the great mystery of the Incarnation of your Only Begotten Son. Who lives and reigns with you in the unity of the Holy Spirit, one God, for ever and ever.
Week 3 Incline a merciful ear to our cry, we pray, O Lord, and, casting light on the darkness of our hearts, visit us with the grace of your Son. Who lives and reigns with you in the unity of the Holy Spirit, one God, for ever and ever.
December 19th O God, who throught the child-bearing of the holy Virgin graciously revealed the radiance of your glory to the world, grant, we pray, that we may venrate with integrity of faith the mystery of so wondrous an Incarnation and always celebrate it with due reverence. Through our Lord Jesus Christ, your Son, who lives and reigns with you in the unity of the Holy Spirit, one God, for ever and ever.

Sext
Reading Is 10:24a, 27 Therefore thus says the Lord, the GOD of hosts: My people, who dwell in Zion, do not fear. On that day, His burden shall be taken from your shoulder, and his yoke shattered from your neck.
Remember us, Lord, because of the love you have for your people.
-Come and bring us your salvation.

Vespers
Hymn p.
Reading Phil 3:20b-21 Our citizenship is in heaven, and from it we also await a savior, the Lord Jesus Christ. He will change our lowly body to conform with his glorified body by the power that enables him also to bring all things into subjection to himself.

Magnificat (December 19th)
O Flower of Jesses's stem, you have been raised up as a sign for all people; kings stand silent in your presence; the nations bow down in worship before you. Come, let nothing keep you from coming to our aid.

Tuesdays
and December 20th
Lauds
Reading Gen 49:10 The scepter shall never depart from Judah, or the mace from between his feet, until tribute comes to him, and he receives the people’s obedience.

Benedictus (December 20th)
The angel Gabriel was sent to the Virgin Mary, who was engaged to be married to Joseph.

Prayers
Week 1 Look with favor, Lord God, on our petitions, and in our trials grant us your compassionate help, that, consoled by the presence of your Son, whose coming we now await, we may be tainted no longer by the corruption of former ways. Through our Lord Jesus Christ, your Son, who lives and reigns with you in the unity of the Holy Spirit, one God, for ever and ever.
Week 2 O God, who have shown forth your salvataion to all the ends of the earth, grant, we pray, that we may look forward in joy to the glorious Nativity of Christ. Who lives and reigns with you in the unity of the Holy Spirit, one God, for ever and ever.
Week 3 O God, who through you Only Begotten Son have made us a new creation, look kindly, we pray, on the handiwork of your mercy, and at your Son's coming cleanse us from every stain of the old way of life. Through our Lord Jesus Christ, your Son, who lives and reigns with you in the unity of the Holy Spirit, one God, for ever and ever.
December 20th O God, eternal majesty, whose ineffable Word the immaculate Virgin received through the message of an Angel and so became the dwelling-place of divinity, filled with the light of the Holy Spirit, grant, we pray, that by her example we may in humility hold fast to your will. Through our Lord Jesus Christ, your Son, who lives and reigns with you in the unity of the Holy Spirit, one God, for ever and ever.

Sext
Reading Jer 23:6 In his days Judah shall be saved, Israel shall dwell in security. This is the name to be given him: “The LORD our justice.”
Remember us, Lord, because of the love you have for your people.
-Come and bring us your salvation.

Vespers
Hymn p.
Reading 1 Cor 1:7b-9 You wait for the revelation of our Lord Jesus Christ. He will keep you firm to the end, irreproachable on the day of our Lord Jesus [Christ]. God is faithful, and by him you were called to fellowship with his Son, Jesus Christ our Lord.

Magnificat (December 20th)
O Key of David, O royal Power of Israel controlling at your will the gate of heaven: come, break down the prison walls of death for those who dwell in darkness and the shadow of death; and lead your captive people into freedom.

Wednesdays
and December 21st
Lauds
Reading Is 7:14b-15 The young woman, pregnant and about to bear a son, shall name him Emmanuel. Curds and honey he will eat so that he may learn to reject evil and choose good.

Benedictus (December 21st)
There is no need to be afraid; in five days our Lord will come to us.

Prayers
Week 1 Prepare our hearts, we pray, O Lord our God, by your divine power, so that at the coming of Christ your Son we may be found worthy of the banquet of eternal life and merit to receive heavenly nourishment from his hands. Who lives and reigns with you in the unity of the Holy Spirit, one God, for ever and ever.
Week 2 Almighty God, who command us to prepare the way of Christ the Lord, grant in your kindness, we pray, that no infirmity may weary us as we long for the comforting pressence of our heavenly physician. Who lives and reigns with you in the unity of the Holy Spirit, one God, for ever and ever.
Week 3 Grant, we pray, almighty God, that the coming solemnity of your Son may bestow healing upon us in this present life and bring us the rewards of life eternal. Through our Lord Jesus Christ, your Son, who lives and reigns with you in the unity of the Holy Spirit, one God, for ever and ever.
December 21st Hear in kindness, O Lord, the prayers of your people, that those who rejoice at the coming of your Only Begotten Son in our flesh may, when at last he comes in glory, gain the reward of eternal life. Through our Lord Jesus Christ, your Son, who lives and reigns with you in the unity of the Holy Spirit, one God, for ever and ever.

Sext
Reading Is 12:2 God indeed is my salvation; I am confident and unafraid. For the LORD is my strength and my might, and he has been my salvation.
Remember us, Lord, because of the love you have for your people.
-Come and bring us your salvation.

Vespers
Hymn p.
Reading 1 Cor 4:5 Therefore, do not make any judgment before the appointed time, until the Lord comes, for he will bring to light what is hidden in darkness and will manifest the motives of our hearts, and then everyone will receive praise from God.

Magnificat (December 21st)
O Radiant Dawn, splendor of eternal light, sun of justice: come, shine on those who dwell in darkness and the shadow of death.

Thursdays
and December 22nd
Lauds
Reading Is 45:8 Let justice descend, you heavens, like dew from above, like gentle rain let the clouds drop it down. Let the earth open and salvation bud forth; let righteousness spring up with them! I, the LORD, have created this.

Benedictus (December 22nd)
The moment that your greeting reached my ears, the child within my womb leapt for joy.

Prayers
Week 1 Stir up your power, O Lord, and come to ur help with mighty strength, that what our sins impede the grace of your mercy may hasten. Through our Lord Jesus Christ, your Son, who lives and reigns with you in the unity of the Holy Spirit, one God, for ever and ever.
Week 2 Stir up our hearts, O Lord, to make ready the paths of your Only Begotten Son, that through his coming, we may be found worthy to serve you with minds made pure. Through our Lord Jesus Christ, your Son, who lives and reigns with you in the unity of the Holy Spirit, one God, for ever and ever.
Week 3 Unworthy servants that we are, O Lord, grieved by the guilt of our deeds, we pray that you may gladden us by the saving advent of your Only Begotten Son. Who lives and reigns with you in the unity of the Holy Spirit, one God, for ever and ever.
December 22nd O God, who, seeing the human race fallen into death, willed to redeem it by the coming of your Only Begotten Son, grant, we pray, that those who confess his Incarnation with humble fervor may merit his company as their Redeemer. Who lives and reigns with you in the unity of the Holy Spirit, one God, for ever and ever.

Sext
Reading Hag 2:6b, In just a little while, I will shake the heavens and the earth, the sea and the dry land. Greater will be the glory of this house the latter more than the former—says the LORD of hosts; and in this place I will give you peace— oracle of the LORD of hosts.
