JUNE 29
STS. PETER AND PAUL
Apostles
Solemnity
From the common of apostles p.    except	

PRAYER:
(Vigil Prayer)
Grant, we pray, O Lord our God,
that we may be sustained
by the intercession of the blessed Apostles Peter and Paul,
that, as through them you gave your Church
the foundations of her heavenly office,
so through them you may help her to eternal salvation.
Through our Lord Jesus Christ, your Son,
who lives and reigns with you in the unity of the Holy Spirit,
one God, for ever and ever.

PRAYER:
(During the Day)
O God, who on the Solemnity of the Apostles Peter and Paul
give us the noble and holy joy of this day,
grant, we pray, that your Church
may in all things follow the teaching
of those through whom she received
the beginnings of right religion.
Through our Lord Jesus Christ, your Son,
who lives and reigns with you in the unity of the Holy Spirit,
one God, for ever and ever.

FIRST VESPERS

READING: Rom 1:1-2,7 Paul, a servant of Jesus Christ, called to be
an apostle, set apart for the gospel of God, which he promised
beforehand through his prophets in the holy scriptures, to all God’s
beloved in Rome, who are called to be saints: grace and peace from,
God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ.

MAGNIFICAT: How glorious are the apostles of Christ; in life they loved
one another; in death they rejoice together forever.

LAUDS

READING: 1Pet 4:13-14 Rejoice in so far as you share Christ’s sufferings,
that you may also rejoice and be glad when his glory is revealed. If
you are reproached for the name of Christ, you are blessed, because
the spirit of glory and of God rests upon you.

BENEDICTUS: Simon Peter said: Lord, to whom shall we go? You have
the words of eternal life; and we believe and we are convinced that
you are the Christ, the Son of God, alleluia.

PSALMODY: ps 119 ant Chr - ps 120 ant OT- ps 121 ant Lent

READING: Acts 15:7-9 Brethren, you know that in the early days God
made choice among you, that by my mouth the Gentiles should
hear the word of the gospel and believe. And God who knows the
heart bore witness to them, giving them the Holy Spirit just as he
did to us; and he made no distinction between us and them, but
cleansed their hearts by faith.

RESP
Their voice has gone out to the limits of the earth,
- Their words to the ends of the world.

SECOND VESPERS

READING: 1Cor 15:3-5,8 I delivered to you as of first importance what I
also received, that Christ died for our sins in accordance with the
Scriptures, that he was buried, that he was raised on the third day
in accordance with the Scriptures, and that he appeared Cephas,
then to the twelve. Last of all, as to one untimely born, he appeared
also to me.

MAGNIFICAT: Peter the apostle and Paul the teacher of the Gentiles
taught us your law, O Lord.

