CHRIST THE KING
Solemnity

FIRST VESPERS

Hymn
The Law, the Prophets and the Gospels proclaim Christ,
He became flesh in the womb of the Virgin,
He was born in Bethlehem, suffered on the wood of the Cross
Dead, he rose from the dead.

He appeared to the Apostles, he ascended into heaven,
And is seated at the right hand of the Father,
Through him who exalted him,
He is King forevermore.

He is perfect Wisdom,
The Word of God, born before the dawn,
Creator of all, he fashioned mankind,
He is all in all.

He is the Resurrection of the dead,
Salvation of those gone astray, Light of the blind,
Shepherd of the justified.
He is the Bridegroom of the Church,

Master of the Cherubim, 
he governs the angels,
God from God, Son of the Father,
Jesus Christ, Everlasting King.

Glory to the Father who rules the universe,
To his Son, the eternal Word,
To the Spirit, the Giver of Life,
From age to age. Amen.

PSALMODY:
ps 112 ant E - ps 109 ant OT - ps 23 ant Adv - NT9

READING: Eph 1:20-23 God raised Christ from the dead and made him sit at his right hand in the heavenly places, far above all rule and authority and power and dominion, and above every name that is named, not only in this age but also in that which is to come; and he has put all things under his feet and has made him the head over all things for the church, which is his body, the fulness of him who fills all in all.

PRAYER: Almighty and merciful God, you break the power of evil and make all things new in your Son Jesus Christ, the King of the universe. May all in heaven and earth acclaim your glory and never cease to praise you. We ask this...

VIGILS

PSALMODY:
ps 46 ant Adv - ps 71 ant OT - ps 2 ant Adv - OT 4 - OT 19 - OT 30

LAUDS

INVITATORY
Come let us worship Jesus Christ, the King of kings.

PSALMODY:
ps 8 ant Lent - ps 62 ant OT - ps 96 ant OT - OT 28 - ps 147 ant E

READING: Eph 4:15-16 Speaking the truth in love, we are to grow up in every way into him who is the head, into Christ, from whom the whole body, joined and knit together by every joint with which it is supplied, when each part is working properly, makes bodily growth and up builds itself in love.

SEXT

PSALMODY:
ps 116 ant E - ps 117 ant OT

READING Col 1:19-20 In Christ all the fullness of God was pleased to dwell, and through him to reconcile to himself all things, whether on earth or in heaven, making peace by the blood of his cross.  

RESP
Sing praise to our King, sing praise.
- For he is King over all the earth.

SECOND VESPERS

HYMN of FIRST VESPERS

PSALMODY:
ps 109 ant OT - ps 144 ant Lent - ps 20 ant OT - NT 12

READING: 1 Cor 15:25-28 Christ must reign until he has put all his enemies under his feet. The last enemy to be destroyed is death.  “For God has put all things in subjection under his feet.” But when it says, “All things are put in subjection under him,” it is plain that he is excepted who put all things under him. When all things are subjected to him, then the Son himself will also be subjected to him who put all things under him, that God may be everything to every one.  
