-----
THE EPIPHANY OF THE LORD
JANUARY 6 OR THE SUNDAY BETWEEN JANUARY 2 AND JANUARY 8
SOLEMNITY

FIRST VESPERS

Hymn
All you who seek the Christ,
Lift your eyes on high and look,
For a heavenly sign has been raised for you,
And you will see His eternal glory.

A star more radiant than the sun,
A light that surpasses all brilliance,
A message of great joy,
God descends in mortal flesh.

The divine star shines for ever.
Light which will never grow dim;
It has pierced the darkness,
And the darkness cannot overcome it.

The Wise Men have seen the rising star,
Eyes fixed toward heaven, they follow its path;
They come to the child of threefold destiny,
They offer gold, incense and myrrh.

Gold heralds the King, incense proclaims the God,
And myrrh foretells the tomb,
Where God, letting His body be laid,
Will arise, smashing the gates of death.

Glory to You, Holy Trinity,
Father, Son and Holy Spirit
Light made manifest to man,
Which shines for all ages. Amen.
-Prudence, 5th century ?

PSALMODY
Ps 134 - Ps 97 - Ps 71 - NT 7

READING:    2 Tim 1:9-10    He saved us and called us to a holy life, not according to our works but according to his own design and the grace bestowed on us in Christ Jesus before time began, but now made manifest through the appearance of our savior Christ Jesus, who destroyed death and brought life and immortality to light through the gospel.

MAGNIFICAT:	Seeing the star, the wise men said: This must signify the birth of some great king. Let us search for him and lay our treasures at his feet: gold, frankincense and myrrh.

PRAYER:	May the splendor of your majesty, O Lord, we pray, shed its light upon our hearts, that we may pass through the shadows of this world and reach the brightness of our eternal home. Through our Lord Jesus Christ, your Son, who lives and reigns with you in the unity of the Holy  Spirit, one God, for ever and ever.

VIGILS
PSALMODY
Ps 66 - Ps 95 - Ps 96 - OT 18 - OT 4 - OT 20

LAUDS
INVITATORY
Christ has appeared to us; come, let us adore him.
PSALMODY
Ps 23 - Ps 99 - OT 6 - Ps 148 - Ps 150

READING:    Is 52:7-10     How beautiful upon the mountains are the feet of the one bringing good news, announcing peace, bearing good news, announcing salvation, saying to Zion, “Your God is King!” Listen! Your sentinels raise a cry, together they shout for joy, for they see directly, before their eyes, the LORD’s return to Zion. Break out together in song, O ruins of Jerusalem! For the LORD has comforted his people, has redeemed Jerusalem. The LORD has bared his holy arm in the sight of all the nations; all the ends of the earth can see the salvation of our God.

BENEDICTUS:	Today the Bridegroom claims his bride, the Church, since Christ has washed her sins away in Jordan's waters; the Magi hasten with their gifts to the royal wedding; and the wedding guests rejoice, for Christ has changed water into wine, alleluia.

SEXT
PSALMODY
Ps 46 - Ps 85

READING:    Is 49:6     It is too little, he says, for you to be my servant, to raise up the tribes of Jacob, and restore the survivors of Israel; I will make you a light to the nations, that my salvation may reach to the ends of the earth.
All nations will see the glory of your holy One.
-All the kings of the earth will acknowledge your majesty.

SECOND VESPERS

HYMN of First Vespers p. ?
PSALMODY
Ps 109 - Ps 137 - Ps 44 - NT 11

READING:    Tit 3:4-5     But when the kindness and generous love of God our savior appeared, not because of any righteous deeds we had done but because of his mercy, he saved us through the bath of rebirth and renewal by the holy Spirit.

MAGNIFICAT:	Three mysteries mark this holy day: today the star leads the Magi to the infant Christ; today water is changed into wine for the wedding feast; today Christ will to be baptized by John in the river Jordan to bring us salvation.
