MARY, MOTHER OF GOD
JANUARY 1
SOLEMNITY

FIRST VESPERS

Hymn
Rejoice, O holy Mother,
You who gave birth to the King of kings,
Who throughout the ages holds in His hands
The heavens, the earth, and the entire universe.

The divine king to whom the boundless empire
Belongs for the duration of time
Gave to your blessed womb
The joys of a Mother and the honor of a Virgin.

No woman is your equal,
Either in ages past or in future years,
You who alone are full of grace
Who found favor with Christ our Savior.

O Virgin, you were deemed worthy
To give birth to the God who triumphs over evil,
The enemy trembles for he has seen mercy,
The wolf flees for the Lamb is victorious.

Let us give glory to the Everlasting Father,
To his Son who was birn of a Virgin,
To the Spirit who overshadowed her,
Forever and ever. Amen.

PSALMODY: From the common of the Blessed Virgin Mary p. ?

READING:    Gal 4:4-5    But when the fullness of time had come, God sent his Son, born of a woman, born under the law, to ransom those under the law, so that we might receive adoption.

MAGNIFICAT
(before the Epiphany): In his great love for us, God sent his Son in the likeness of our sinful nature, born of a woman and subject to the law, alleluia.
(Tuesday after the Epiphany): Christ, you are Light from Light; when you appeared on the earth, the wise men offered their gifts to you, alleluia.

PRAYER:	O God, who through the fruitful virginity of Blessed Mary bestowed on the human race the grace of eternal salvation, rant, we pray, that we may experience the intercession of her, through whom we were found worthy to receive the author of life, our Lord JEsus Christ, your Son. Who lives an reigns with you in the unity of the Holy Spirit, one God, for ever and ever.

VIGILS

PSALMODY: Ps 23

need revised antiphons (sheet music)

LAUDS

INVITATORY
Let us celebrate the motherhood of the Virgin Mary;
let us worhship her Son, Christ the Lord.

PSALMODY: Ps 18 - Ps 47 - OT 18 - Ps 149 - Ps 150 (mode 7)


READING:    Mic 5:2, 3, 4a    

BENEDICTUS:	Marvelous is the mystery proclaimed today: man's nature is made new as God becomes man; he remains what he was and becomes what he was not. Yet each nature stays distinct and for ever undivided.

SEXT

PSALMODY: of Sunday Week II. If a weekday: Ps 123 - Ps 124

READING:    Zep 9:9    For then I will make pure the speech of the peoples, that they all may call upon the name of the LORD, to serve him with one accord.

RESP
All the ends of the earth, alleluia.
-Have seen the saving power of God, alleluia.

SECOND VESPERS

HYMN from First Vespers

PSALMODY: Ps 121- Ps 126 - Ps 131 - NT 4

need revised antiphons (sheet music)

READING:    Gal 4:4-5    But when the fullness of time had come, God sent his Son, born of a woman, born under the law, to ransom those under the law, so that we might receive adoption.

MAGNIFICAT:	Blessed is the womb that bore you, O Christ, and the breast that nursed you, Lord and Savior of the world, alleluia.
