MONDAYS
and December 19th

LAUDS

READING: Is 2:3b “Come, let us go up to the LORD’s mountain, to the house of the God of Jacob, that he may instruct us in his ways, and we may walk in his paths.” For from Zion shall go forth instruction, and the word of the LORD from Jerusalem.

BENEDICTUS: (December 19th) Like the sun in the morning sky, the Savoir of the world will dawn; like rain on the meadows he will descend to rest in the womb of the Virgin, alleluia.

PRAYER
Week 1: Keep us alert, we pray, O Lord our God, as we await the advent of Christ your Son, so that, when he comes and knocks, he may find us watchful in prayer and exultant in his praise. Who lives and reigns with you in the unity of the Holy Spirit, one God, for ever and ever.
Week 2: May our prayer of petition rise before you, we pray, O Lord, that, with purity unblemished, we, your servants, may come, as we desire, to celebrate the great mystery of the Incarnation of your Only Begotten Son. Who lives and reigns with you in the unity of the Holy Spirit, one God, for ever and ever.
Week 3: Incline a merciful ear to our cry, we pray, O Lord, and, casting light on the darkness of our hearts, visit us with the grace of your Son. Who lives and reigns with you in the unity of the Holy Spirit, one God, for ever and ever.
December 19th: O God, who throught the child-bearing of the holy Virgin graciously revealed the radiance of your glory to the world, grant, we pray, that we may venrate with integrity of faith the mystery of so wondrous an Incarnation and always celebrate it with due reverence. Through our Lord Jesus Christ, your Son, who lives and reigns with you in the unity of the Holy Spirit, one God, for ever and ever.

SEXT

READING: Is 10:24a, 27 Therefore thus says the Lord, the GOD of hosts: My people, who dwell in Zion, do not fear. On that day, His burden shall be taken from your shoulder, and his yoke shattered from your neck.

RESP
Remember us, Lord, because of the love you have for your people.
-Come and bring us your salvation.

VESPERS

HYMN p.

READING: Phil 3:20b-21 Our citizenship is in heaven, and from it we also await a savior, the Lord Jesus Christ. He will change our lowly body to conform with his glorified body by the power that enables him also to bring all things into subjection to himself.

MAGNIFICAT: (December 19th) O Flower of Jesses's stem, you have been raised up as a sign for all people; kings stand silent in your presence; the nations bow down in worship before you. Come, let nothing keep you from coming to our aid.
