Sundays of Advent
and December 17th and 18th

First Vespers (and December 17th)
Hymn p.?
Psalmody
1st week    week I
2nd week    week II
3rd week    week III
4th week    week IV

Reading 1 Th 5:23-24  May the God of peace himself make you perfectly holy and may you entirely, spirit, soul, and body, be preserved blameless for the coming of our Lord Jesus Christ.i 24The one who calls you is faithful, and he will also accomplish it.

Magnificat (until December 17th)
1. See the Lord coming from afar; his splendor fills the earth.
2. Come to us, Lord and may your presence be our peace; with hearts made perfect we shall rejoice in your friendship forever.
3. There was no god before me and after me there will be none; every knee shall bend in worship, and every tongue shall praise me.
(December 17th)
   O, Wisdom, O holy Word of God, you govern all creation with your strong yet tender care. Come and show your peaole the way to salvation.
(December 18th)
   O, Sacred Lord of ancient Israel, who showed yourself to Moses in the burning bush, who gave him the holy law on Mount Sinai: come, stretch out your mighty hand to set us free.

Prayers
Week 1   Grant your faithful, we pray, almighty God, the resolve to run forth to meet your Christ with righteous deeds at his coming, so that, gathered at his right hand, they may be worthy to possess the heavenly Kingdom. Through our Lord Jesus Christ, your Son, who lives and reigns with you in the unity of the Holy Spirit, one God, for ever and ever.
Week 2   Almighty and merciful God, may no earthly undertaking hinder those who set out in haste to meet your Son, but may our learning of heavenly wisdom gain us admittance to his company. Who lives and reigns with you in the unity of the Holy Spirit, one God, for ever and ever.
Week 3   O God, who see how your people faithfully await the feast of the Lord's Nativity, enable us, we pray, to attain the joys of so great a salvation and to celebrate them always with solemn worship and glad rejoicing. Through our Lord Jesus Christ, your Son, who lives and reigns with you in the unity of the Holy Spirit, one God, for ever and ever.
Week 4   Pour forth, we beseech you, O Lord, your grace into our hearts, that we, to whom the Incarnation of Christ your Son was made known by the message of an Angel, may by his Passion and Cross be brought to the glory of his Resurrection. Who lives and reigns with you in the unity of the Holy Spirit, one God, for ever and ever.
December 17th  O God, Creator and Redeemer of human nature, who willed that your Word should take flesh in an ever-virgin womb, look with favor on our prayers, that your Only Begotten Son, having taken to himself our humanity, may be pleased to grant us a share in his divinity. Who lives and reigns with you in the unity of the Holy Spirit, one God, for ever and ever.

Vigils (and December 17th)
Psalmody
OT 25 - OT 26 - OT 28      

Lauds (and December 18th)
Reading Rom 13:11-12  It is the hour now for you to awake from sleep. For our salvation is nearer now than when we first believed; the night is advanced, the day is at hand. Let us then throw off the works of darkness and put on the armor of light.

Benedictus (until December 17th)
1. The Holy Spirit will come upon you, Mary; you have no need to be afraid. You will carry in your womb the Son of God, alleluia.
2. I am sending my angel before me to prepare the way for my coming.
3. When John, in prison, heard of the works of Christ, he sent two of his disciples with this question: Are you the one whose coming was foretold, or should we look for another?
(December 17th)
Believe me, the kingdom of God is at hand; I tell you solemnly, your Savior will not delay his coming.
(December 18th)
Let everything within you watch and wait, for the Lord our God draws near.

Prayer on December 18th Grant, we pray, almight God, that we, who are weighed down from of old by slavery beneath the yoke of sin, may be set free by the newness of the long-awaited Nativity of your Only Begotten Son. Who lives and reigns with you in the unity of the Holy Spirit, one God, for ever and ever.

Sext (and December 28th)
Reading 1 Thess 3:12-13 May the Lord make you increase and abound in love for one another and for all, just as we have for you, so as to strengthen your hearts, to be blameless in holiness before our God and Father at the coming of our Lord Jesus with all his holy ones. Amen.
Remember us, Lord, because of the love you have for your people.
- Come and bring us your salvation.

Second Vespers
Hymn p.
Reading Ph 4:4-5  Rejoice in the Lord always. I shall say it again: rejoice! Your kindness should be known to all. The Lord is near.

Magnificat (until December 17th)
1. Do not be afraid, Mary you have found favor with God; you will conceive and give birth to a Son, alleluia.
2. Blessed are you, O Virgin Mary, for your great faith ; all that the Lord promised you will come to pass through you, alleluia.
3. Are you the one whose coming was foretold, or should we look for another? Tell John what you see: the blind have their sight resotred, the dead are raised to life, and the poor have the good news preached to them, alleluia.
(December 18th)
O sacred Lord of ancient Israel, who showed yourself to Moses in the burning bush, who have him the holy law on Mount Sinai: come, stretch out your mighty hand to set us free.

