COMMON OF APOSTLES
HYMN
Sing joyfully of the friends of God,
Th eir message has resounded throughout the land,
Th eir words to the ends of the earth,
Th ey have followed Christ from the beginning.
Th ey have been victorious in the great trial,
Th ey have washed their robes in the Blood of the Lamb,
Th ey have put on the radiant garment,
Th e Angels acclaim them, the Powers bow down before them.
Th e Apostles, through their faith, have defeated the kingdoms,
Th ey have become the foundations of the Church,
In her, their doctrine shines by means of Christ
As the moon shines by means of the sun.
O Christ, Savior of the world
Save your Church, the sheep of your pasture,
With the Father and the Most Holy Spirit
May you be praised for ever and ever. Amen.
611COMMONS
FIRST VESPERS
PSALMODY
ps 115 ant Adv - ps 110 ant Lent - ps 144 ant OT - NT 4
READING Acts 2:42-45 Th e
brethren devoted themselves to the apostles’
teaching and fellowship, to the breaking of bread and the prayers.
And fear came upon every soul; and many wonders and signs were
done through the apostles. And all who believed were together
and had all things in common; and they sold their possessions and
goods and distributed them to all, as any had need.
MAGNIFICAT :
You did not choose me, but I chose you to go forth and
bear fruit that will last forever.
PRAYER
the proper of the Apostle
VIGILS
PSALMODY
ps 33
MODE
ps125 ant E - ps 2 ant Adv - OT 29
OT 9
MODE 5
OT11
LAUDS
INVITATORY
Apostles:
Come, let us worship the Lord, the King of apostles (alleluia).
Evangelists:
Jesus Christ, eternal Word of the Father, praise to you!
PSALMODY
ps 95 ant E
612APOSTLES
ps 96
MODE5
OT29B
ps 46
MODE 5
You are no longer strangers and sojourners,
but you are fellow citizens with the saints and members of the
household of God, built upon the foundation of the apostles and
prophets, Christ Jesus himself being the cornerstone, in whom the
whole structure is joined together and grows into a holy temple in
the Lord; in whom you also are built into it for a dwelling place of
God in the Spirit.
READING Eph 2:19-22
BENEDICTUS : On the foundation stones of the heavenly Jerusalem, the
names of the twelve apostles of the Lamb are written; the Lamb of
God is the light of that holy city (alleluia).
SEXT
PSALMODY for solemnities:
ps 116
MODE 7
ps 118 XIII-XIV ant Adv
READING 2 Cor 5:19-20 In Christ God was reconciling the world to
himself, not counting their trespasses against them, and entrusting
to us the message of reconciliation. So we are ambassadors for
Christ, God making his appeal through us. We beseech you on
behalf of Christ, be reconciled to God.
Th eir voice has gone out to the limits of the earth (alleluia),
- Th eir words to the ends of the world (alleluia).
613COMMONS
SECOND VESPERS
PSALMODY
ps 109 ant OT - ps 137 ant Lent
ps 138
MODE 8
NT 4
READING Eph 4:11-13 God’s gifts were that some should be apostles,
some prophets, some evangelists, some pastors and teachers, to
equip the saints for the work of ministry, for building up the body
of Christ, until we all attain to the unity of the faith and of the
knowledge of the Son of God, to mature manhood, to the measure
of the stature of the fullness of Christ.
MAGNIFICAT :
When all things are made new, and the Son of man is
enthroned in majesty, you will sit in judgment over the twelve tribes
of Israel (alleluia).
