COMMON OF HOLY MEN AND WOMEN
HYMN
Let us now sing of the renowned servants of Christ,
Resplendent with faith and noble deeds.
Whom on this day, the earth united to heaven,
Adorns with praises.
For they, meek, humble, chaste,
Led a life innocent of sin,
Until their souls liberated from the earth,
Took their fl ight to heaven.
From there they now rejoice to help the wretched,
Th ey dry the tears of the weeping,
Th ey heal the wounds of the souls,
And restore health to sick members.
Let our praise, therefore resound,
And express our gratitude to these servants of God;
May they come forward with their kind help,
To assist us in diffi cult things.
635COMMONS
To God alone be glory and power,
Praise in the highest and endless honor,
He governs the whole world,
Ruling it by his laws. Amen.
FIRST VESPERS
PSALMODY
ps 110 ant Lent - ps 111 ant OT
ps 112
PER
NT 4
Whatever gain I had, I counted as loss for the
sake of Christ. Indeed I count everything as loss because of the
surpassing worth of knowing Christ Jesus my Lord. For his sake I
have suff ered the loss of all things, and count them as refuse, in order
READING Phil 3:7-8
that I may gain Christ.
MAGNIFICAT :
For a holy man:
He is like the wise man that built his house upon rock (alleluia).
For a holy woman:
Praise the holy name of the Lord; the heart that seeks him will rejoice
(alleluia).
PRAYER If there is no proper prayer, one of the following is said:
God our Father, you alone are holy; without you
nothing is good. Trusting in the prayers of Saint N, we ask you to
help us to become the holy people you call us to be. Never let us be
found undeserving of the glory you have prepared for us. We ask
this...
FOR A HOLY WOMAN: God our Father, every year you give us joy on
this feast of Saint N. As we honor her memory by this celebration,
may we follow the example of her holy life. We ask this...
FOR A HOLY MAN:
636HOLY MEN AND WOMEN
VIGILS
PSALMODY
ps 23 ant Lent - ps 22 ant Lent
ps 96
MODE 5
OT 35 - OT 13 - OT 16
LAUDS
INVITATORY
- Come, let us worship God, wonderful in his saints (alleluia).
- Let us sing praise to God, as we acclaim Saint N. (alleluia).
PSALMODY
ps 62 ant Adv - ps 92 ant Lent - OT 11 - ps 99 ant Chr
I appeal to you therefore, by the mercies of God,
to present your bodies as a living sacrifi ce, holy and acceptable to
God, which is your spiritual worship. Do not be conformed to this
world but be transformed by the renewal of your mind, that you
may prove what is the will of God, what is good and acceptable
and perfect.
READING Rom 12:1-2
BENEDICTUS :
For a holy man:
Th e man of God welcomes the light that searches his deeds and fi nds
them true (alleluia).
For a holy woman:
Th e kingdom of heaven is like a merchant seeking fi ne pearls; he fi nds
one of great value and gives all that he has to possess it (alleluia).
SEXT
PSALMODY for solemnities
ps 14 ant Adv - ps 122 ant Lent - ps 125 ant Adv
READING Gal 6:7b-8 Whatever
a man sows, that he will reap. For he
who sows to his own fl esh will from the fl esh reap corruption; but
he who sows to the Spirit will from the Spirit reap eternal life.
Th e Lord teaches the humble his way (alleluia).
- He guides the gentle-hearted along the right path (alleluia).
637COMMONS
SECOND VESPERS
PSALMODY
ps 32 ant E - ps 131 ant Lent - ps 137 ant Lent - NT 11
We know that in everything God works for
good with those who love him, who are called according to his
purpose. For those whom he foreknew he also predestined to be
conformed to the image of his Son, in order that he might be the
fi rst-born among many brethren. And those whom he predestined
he also called; and those whom he called he also justifi ed; and those
whom he justifi ed he also glorifi ed.
READING Rom 8:28-30
MAGNIFICAT :
For a holy man:
Good and faithful servant, enter into the joy of your Lord (alleluia).
For a holy woman:
My heart sings for joy and overfl ows with gladness, for the Lord is my
Savior. (Alleluia).
