COMMON OF SEVERAL MARTYRS
HYMN
“He who believes in me and keeps my word
Will carry his cross and will follow me;
I have come to open for men the narrow gate
Th rough which no one can easily pass.”
Th e martyrs received these words with love;
Th ey became estranged from all that they possessed,
Th ey saw that Jesus’ death was source of life
And understood that he was Lord of all things.
Th e martyrs aspired to life in the Kingdom of Heaven,
Th ey did not tremble before men;
Th ey endured suff erings unto death,
Th ey are buried in Christ that they might live in him.
He ascended fi rst to prepare a dwelling place for them;
If the thief, by uttering a single word, entered paradise,
Where then will those who did not value their lives enter?
Christ himself will be their reward.
614MARTYRS
Th e martyrs have professed the Lord, the Son of God,
Truly dead in the fl esh and truly risen;
By their death, they bear witness to Christ’s truth,
And with him, they share his glory.
Praise to the Father who opens to them his Kingdom,
Praise to the Son who gives them the crown of glory,
Praise to the Spirit who has made them strong.
Most Holy Trinity, we believe in you, glory to you. Amen.
FIRST VESPERS
PSALMODY
ps 16 ant Lent - ps 30 ant Lent - ps 123 ant Lent - NT 8
Who shall separate us from the love of Christ?
Shall tribulation, or distress, or persecution, or famine, or
nakedness, or peril, or sword? No, in all these things we are more
than conquerors through him who loved us. For I am sure that
neither death, nor life, nor angels, nor principalities, nor things
present, nor things to come, nor powers, nor height, nor depth,
nor anything else in all creation, will be able to separate us from the
love of God in Christ Jesus our Lord.
READING Rom 8:35-39
MAGNIFICAT :
Renouncing all this world could off er, these martyrs are
now in God’s kingdom; with their robes washed clean in the blood
of the Lamb, they share his joy forever.
All-powerful, ever-living God, turn our weakness into strength.
As you gave your martyrs N. and N. the courage to suff er death for
Christ, give us the courage to live in faithful witness to you. Grant
this...
PRAYER
VIGILS
PSALMODY
ps 10 ant Adv
ps 78
MODE 2
615COMMONS
ps 15 ant Lent
OT 9
MODE 5
OT 11
OT 47
MODE 1
LAUDS
INVITATORY
Come, let us worship Christ, the King of martyrs (alleluia).
PSALMODY
ps 62
MODE1
ps 91 ant E - OT 23 ant OT - ps 32 ant E
Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus
Christ, the Father of mercies and God of all comfort, who comforts
us in all our affl iction, so that we may be able to comfort those
who are in any affl iction, with the comfort with which we ourselves
are comforted by God. For as we share abundantly in Christ’s
suff erings, so through Christ we share abundantly in comfort too.
READING 2 Cor 1:3-5
616MARTYRS
BENEDICTUS :
Blessed are those who suff er persecution for the sake of
justice; the kingdom of heaven is theirs.
SEXT
PSALMODY for solemnities:
ps 118
XVII-XVIII
PER
ps 115
MODE 8
After you have suff ered a little while, the God
of all grace, who has called you to his eternal glory in Christ, will
himself restore, establish, and strengthen you. To him be the
dominion for ever and ever. Amen.
READING 1 Pet 5:10-11
Th e Friends of God have put their hope in him (alleluia).
- Th ey will be clothed in his unfailing strength (alleluia).
SECOND VESPERS
PSALMODY
ps 111 ant OT - ps 85 ant OT
ps 112
PER
NT10
Th ese are they who have come out of the great
tribulation; they have washed their robes and made them white
in the blood of the Lamb. Th erefore are they before the throne of
God, and serve him day and night within his temple; and he who
sits upon the throne will shelter them with his presence. Th ey shall
hunger no more, neither thirst any more; the sun shall not strike
them, nor any scorching heat. For the Lamb in the midst of the
READING Rev 7: 14-17
617COMMONS
throne will be their shepherd, and he will guide them to springs of
living water, and God will wipe away every tear from their eyes.
MAGNIFICAT : Th e holy friends of Christ rejoice in heaven; they followed
in his footsteps to the end. Th ey have shed their blood for love of him
and will reign with him forever.
