OMMON OF PASTORS
HYMN
Th e Spirit of the Lord is upon me.
He has anointed me with oil,
He has sent me to bring Good News to the poor
To heal the brokenhearted.
He has sent me to proclaim liberty to captives,
Recovery of sight to the blind,
To restore freedom to the oppressed,
To proclaim a year of favor from the Lord.
He has sent me to comfort all those who mourn,
To give them for ashes the fi nest jewels,
For mourning robe the oil of gladness,
For despondency, praise.
Glory to you, compassionate Jesus,
May your name be always on my lips;
Glory to you Father and to the Spirit of holiness,
Now and for all ages. Amen.
FIRST VESPERS
PSALMODY
ps 1 ant OT
ps 4
MODE 6
ps 137 ant Lent - NT 4
I exhort the elders among you, as a fellow elder
and a witness of the suff erings of Christ as well as a partaker in
the glory that is to be revealed. Tend the fl ock of God that is your
charge, not by constraint but willingly, not for shameful gain but
eagerly, not as domineering over those in your charge but being
examples to the fl ock. And when the chief Shepherd is manifested
you will obtain the unfading crown of glory.
READING 1 Pet 5:1-4
622PASTORS
MAGNIFICAT :
Priest of the Most High God and mirror of goodness; you were a
good shepherd to your people and pleasing to the Lord (alleluia).
PRAYER If there is no proper prayer, one of the following is said:
All-powerful and ever-living God, you called Saint N. to
guide your people by his word and example. With him we pray to
you: watch over the pastors of your Church with the people entrusted
to their care, and lead them to salvation. We ask this...
FOR A BISHOP: Lord God, you counted Saint N. among your holy
pastors, renowned for faith and love which conquered evil in this
world. By the help of his prayers keep us strong in faith and love and
let us come to share his glory. Grant this...
FOR A PASTOR: God our Father, in Saint N. you gave a light to your
faithful people. You made him a pastor of the Church to feed your
sheep with his word and to teach them by his example. Help us by
his prayers to keep the faith he taught and follow the way of life he
showed us. Grant this...
FOR A POPE:
VIGILS
PSALMODY
ps 23
PER
ps 22 ant Lent
ps 96
MODE 5
OT 35 - OT 13 - OT 14
LAUDS
INVITATORY
Come, let us worship Christ, chief shepherd of the fl ock (alleluia).
623COMMONS
PSALMODY
ps 62
MODE 1
ps 91 ant E - OT 29 A ant 29 B
ps99
MODE 5
READING Heb 13:7-9a Remember
your leaders, those who spoke to you
the word of God; consider the outcome of their life, and imitate
their faith. Jesus Christ is the same yesterday and today and for
ever. Do not be led away by diverse and strange teachings.
BENEDICTUS :
What you say of me does not come from yourselves; it
is the Spirit of my Father speaking in you (alleluia).
SEXT
PSALMODY for solemnities:
ps 116
MODE 7
ps 118 V-VI ant OT
I thank him who has given me strength for this,
Christ Jesus our Lord, because he judged me faithful by appointing
me to his service.
READING 1 Tim 1:12
I am not ashamed to proclaim the gospel (alleluia).
- It is the saving power of God at work (alleluia).
624DOCTORS
SECOND VESPERS
PSALMODY
ps 8 ant OT 2 - ps 111 ant E
ps 131
MODE 1
NT 11
READING 1 Pet 5:1-4 I exhort the elders among you, as a fellow elder
and a witness of the suff erings of Christ as well as a partaker in
the glory that is to be revealed. Tend the fl ock of God that is your
charge, not by constraint but willingly, not for shameful gain but
eagerly, not as domineering over those in your charge but being
examples to the fl ock. And when the chief Shepherd is manifested
you will obtain the unfading crown of glory.
MAGNIFICAT :
Th is is a faithful and wise steward: the Lord entrusted
the care of his household to him, so that he might give them their
portion of food at the proper season (alleluia).
Or: O Christ, Good Shepherd, I thank you for leading me to glory; I
pray that the fl ock you have entrusted to my care will share with me
in your glory for ever (alleluia).
