COMMON OF MONKS AND RELIGIOUS
HYMN
Here you are standing at the door and you knock,
You will enter the home of him who opens the door,
You will dine with him and he with you,
Glory to you who lead us to the desert and speak to our hearts!
Whoever is thirsty comes to you,
From your breast fl ow rivers of living water,
From the desert rock you bring forth a spring,
Glory to you who change the stony heart into a heart of fl esh!
Whoever loves you keeps your word,
Your Father will love him and you will both come to him,
You will remain in him and he in you,
Glory to you who invite us to the eternal wedding feast!
Whoever loves his brothers knows you,
You, the Holy God, will be with him,
O Master, who became a servant for your disciples,
Glory to you, God with us forever!
We glorify you, Father, Giver of Life,
Son exalted in Glory, source of hope,
Spirit of God, gift whom we adore,
Now and forevermore! Amen.
FIRST VESPERS
PSALMODY
ps 1 ant OT
ps 4
MODE 6
ps 137 ant Lent - NT 4
629COMMONS
See what love the Father has given us, that we
should be called children of God; and so we are. Th e reason why
the world does not know us is that it did not know him. Beloved,
we are God’s children now; it does not yet appear what we shall be,
but we know that when he appears we shall be like him, for we shall
see him as he is.
READING 1Jn3:1-2
Unless you give up all you possess, you cannot be my
disciples, says the Lord (alleluia).
MAGNIFICAT
Lord God, you kept
Saint N. faithful to Christ’s pattern of poverty and humility. May
his prayers help us to live in fi delity to our calling and bring us to the
perfection you have shown us in your Son, who lives and reigns with
you and the Holy Spirit, one God, for ever and ever.
PRAYER If there is no proper prayer, the following is said:
VIGILS
PSALMODY
ps 26 ant Adv - ps 83 ant Lent - ps 33 ant Lent
OT 45 - OT 46 - OT 30 ant Lent
LAUDS
PSALMODY
ps 62
MODE 1
ps 91 ant Lent - OT 16
ps 99
MODE 5
630MONKS AND RELIGIOUS
READING 1 Kings 19:11-14 And he said, “Go forth, and stand upon the
mount before the Lord.” And behold, the Lord passed by, and a
great and strong wind rent the mountains, and broke in pieces the
rocks before the Lord, but the Lord was not in the wind; and after
the wind an earthquake, but the Lord was not in the earthquake;
and after the earthquake a fi re, but the Lord was not in the fi re;
and after the fi re a still small voice. And when Elijah heard it,
he wrapped his face in his mantle and went out and stood at the
entrance of the cave. And behold, there came a voice to him, and
said, “What are you doing here, Elijah?” He said, “I have been
very jealous for the Lord, the God of hosts; for the people of Israel
have forsaken thy covenant, thrown down thy altars, and slain thy
prophets with the sword; and I, even I only, am left; and they seek
my life, to take it away.”
BENEDICTUS :
Whoever does my Father’s will, says the Lord, he is my
brother, my sister and my mother (alleluia).
SEXT
PSALMODY for solemnities:
ps 116
MODE7
ps 118 V-VI ant OT
Now the company of those who believed were of
one heart and soul, and no one said that any of the things which he
possessed was his own, but they had everything in common.
READING Acts 4:32
O taste and see how good is the Lord!
- Happy is the man who takes refuge in him.
VESPERS
PSALMODY
ps 118 III-IV ant Adv
631COMMONS
ps 112
PER
ps 115 ant Adv - NT 4
READING Rev 14:2-5 And I heard a voice from heaven like the sound
of many waters and like the sound of loud thunder; the voice I
heard was like the sound of harpers playing on their harps, and
they sing a new song before the throne and before the four living
creatures and before the elders. No one could learn that song except
the hundred and forty-four thousand who had been redeemed from
the earth. It is these who have not defi led themselves with women,
for they are chaste; it is these who follow the Lamb wherever he
goes; these have been redeemed from mankind as fi rst fruits for
God and the Lamb, and in their mouth no lie was found, for they
are spotless.
MAGNIFICAT : You have left everything to follow me; you will have it all
returned a hundredfold and will inherit eternal life (alleluia).
