COMMON OF VIRGINS
HYMN
Arise, shine, for your light has come,
And the glory of the Lord has risen upon you,
I will make you a source of eternal pride,
A cause for joy from age to age.
Th e sun will no longer be your light by day
Th e brightness of the moon will no longer shine upon you,
But the Lord will be your everlasting light
And your God will be your beauty.
632VIRGINS
I exult with joy in the Lord,
My soul rejoices in my God,
For he has clothed me in the garments of salvation,
He has wrapped me in the mantle of justice.
As a young bridegroom wears a diadem,
As a bride adorns herself with her jewels,
You will be a sparkling ring on the fi nger of the Lord,
A royal turban in the hands of your God.
You will be called “my delight”
For you are pleasing to the Lord,
And as a husband rejoices in his wife,
your God will rejoice in you.
Glory to you, Father, Giver of Life,
Son exalted in glory, source of hope,
Spirit of God, gift whom we adore,
Now and forevermore. Amen.
FIRST VESPERS
PSALMODY
ps 110 ant Lent - ps 111 ant OT
ps 112
PER
NT 4
READING 1 Cor7:32b, 34a Th e unmarried man is anxious about the
aff airs of the Lord, how to please the Lord; and his interests are
divided. And the unmarried woman or girl is anxious about the
aff airs of the Lord, how to be holy in body and spirit
When the Bridegroom came, he found the wise virgin
ready to enter the wedding feast with him (alleluia).
MAGNIFICAT
633COMMONS
Lord, you have told
us that you live for ever in the hearts of the chaste. By the prayers of
the Virgin N., help us to live by your grace and remain a temple of
your Spirit. Grant this...
PRAYER If there is no proper prayer, the following is said:
VIGILS
PSALMODY
ps 23
PER
ps 44 ant E - ps 45 ant Chr
OT 35 - OT 13 - OT 16
LAUDS
INVITATORY
-Th e holy virgins praise their Lord and King;
come, let us join in their worship (alleluia).
- Come, let us worship the Lamb
with the virgins who followed him (alleluia).
PSALMODY
ps 62 ant Adv - ps 92 ant Lent - OT 30 B ant E - ps 99 ant Chr
READING Song 8:7 Many waters cannot quench love, neither can fl oods
drown it. If a man off ered for love all the wealth of his house, it
would be utterly scorned.
BENEDICTUS :
Now this wise virgin has gone to Christ. Among the
choirs of virgins she is radiant as the sun in the heavens (alleluia).
SEXT
PSALMODY for solemnities:
ps 14 ant Adv - ps 122 ant Lent - ps 125 ant Adv
READING Gal 6:8 He
who sows to his own fl esh will from the fl esh
reap corruption; but he who sows to the Spirit will from the Spirit
reap eternal life.
Th is is a wise virgin (alleluia).
- She was among those prepared for the Lord’s coming (alleluia).
634HOLY MEN AND WOMEN
SECOND VESPERS
PSALMODY
ps 32 ant E - ps 131 ant Lent - ps 137 ant Lent - NT 11
One of the elders addressed me, saying, “Who
are these, clothed in white robes, and whence have they come?” I
said to him, “Sir, you know.” And he said to me, “Th ese are they
who have come out of the great tribulation; they have washed their
robes and made them white in the blood of the Lamb. Th erefore
are they before the throne of God, and serve him day and night
within his temple; and he who sits upon the throne will shelter
them with his presence. Th ey shall hunger no more, neither thirst
any more; the sun shall not strike them, nor any scorching heat.
For the Lamb in the midst of the throne will be their shepherd, and
he will guide them to springs of living water; and God will wipe
away every tear from their eyes.”
READING Rev 7:13-17
MAGNIFICAT :
Come, spouse of Christ, and receive the crown the Lord
has prepared for you from all eternity.
