1b Blessed be God, who lives forever,
and blessed be his kingdom,
2 for he punishes but also shows mercy.

He leads down to the depths of Hades,
and brings up from ruin by his majesty;
and no one can escape his hand.

3 Children of Israel, confess him before the nations,
for he has scattered you among them,
4 and even there has shown you his greatness.

Extol him, then, before every living being,
for he is our Lord and our Father,
he is our God forever.

5 He will punish you for your iniquities,
but on all of you he will have mercy,
he will gather you from all the nations
wherever you have been scattered.

6 When you turn back to him
with all your heart and all your soul
to do what is true before him,
then he will turn back to you
and no longer hide his face from you.

Now, then, see what he has done for you,
and with full voice, give him your thanks.
Bless the Lord of righteousness,
and exalt the King of the ages.

In the land of my exile I give him thanks,
and show his power and grandeur to a nation of sinners.
Turn back, you sinners, and do what is right before him.
Who knows, he may favor you and sin you mercy?

7 To the King of heaven I speak joyfully,
my soul rejoices all the days of my life.
8 bless the Lord, all yon chosen ones;
and all, give praise to his grandeur.
Take up days of rejoicing and confess him.

9 O Jerusalem, holy city,
for the works of your hands he will punish you.
10 Give thanks to the Lord with good works,
and bless the King of the ages
so that his tent may be rebuilt in you with joy.

And may he gladden all captives within you;
and may he love all the anguished within you
for all generations, forever.

11 A brilliant light will shine to all the ends of the earth;
many nations will come to you from afar,
and from all the earth's ends to your holy name,
bearing their gifts in their hands for the King of heaven.

Generation after generation
will give joyful praise in you,
and the name of the chosen one will be forever.

13 Then you will rejoice and exult
over the children of the righteous,
tor thev will all be gathered in
and will bless the Lord of the ages.
14 Blessed are those who love you,
and blessed those who rejoice in your fruitful peace.

15 O my soul, bless the Lord, the great King,
16 for Jerusalem shall be built as a city,
his house from age to age.
How happy will I be if a remnant of my offspring
lives on to see your glory,
and professes the King of heaven.

The gates of Jerusalem will be made
of sapphire and emerald,
and all your walls of precious stones.
The towers of Jerusalem will be made with gold
and their bulwarks with pure gold.

17 The streets of Jerusalem will be paved .
with ruby and with stones of Ophir.
18 The very gates of Jerusalem will resound
with hymns of gladness,
and all her houses will shout, Alleluia.

Blessed be the God of Israel,
and those blessed will praise the holy name,
from eternity and forever.
